voldemort_harry:  Ow!
voldemort_harry:  {puts cake down} Excuse me, who are you?
voldemort_harry:  You knew?? You knew all along and you never told me?
voldemort_harry:  {Nods} Okay.
voldemort_harry:  But, Hagrid, how am I to pay for all this? I haven't any money.
voldemort_harry:  What's in there, Hagrid?
voldemort_harry:  I still need...a wand.
voldemort_harry:  Sorry, but what's curious?
voldemort_harry:  And...who owned that wand?
voldemort_harry:  Platform 9 ¾? But Hagrid, there must be a mistake. This says Platform 9 ¾. There's no such thing...is there? {Harry looks up and Hagrid has vanished.}
voldemort_harry:  No, not at all.
voldemort_harry:  {picks up blue and gold package} These aren't real chocolate frogs, are they?
voldemort_harry:  Hey, Ron, somebody broke into Gringotts. Listen, Believed to be the work of dark witches or wizards unknown, Gringotts goblins, while acknowledging the breach, insist that nothing was taken. The vault in question, number 713, had in fact been emptied earlier that same day. That's odd. That's the vault Hagrid and I went to.
voldemort_harry:  {throws back} I think so. What are those? {points to two squirming chained down balls.}
voldemort_harry:  I think she heard you.
voldemort_harry:  Do something! {swipe}
voldemort_harry:  Oh! {Harry runs down the stairs.}
voldemort_harry:  How can it? Both my parents are dead. {Harry smiles sadly.}
voldemort_harry:  Hagrid!
voldemort_harry:  If I didn't know better, Draco, I'd say you were scared.
voldemort_harry:  But who would choose such a life?
voldemort_harry:  I think if he'd had the chance, he might have tried to kill me tonight.
voldemort_harry:  I don't know. Sounds like wings.
voldemort_harry:  Not as good as you.
voldemort_harry:  I-I'm shaking hands with Dumbledore. I've won the house cup.
voldemort_harry:  Ahhhhhhhhh! {Voldemort flies away. Harry falls to the ground, unconscious. He holds the stone in an outstretched hand.}
voldemort_harry:  What is it?
voldemort_harry: Not go back? But... I have to.
voldemort_harry: Well, I expect they've been -- hang on, how do you know my friends haven't been writing me? Guiltily, Dobby takes out a STACK of LETTERS.
voldemort_harry: I can't. Hogwarts is my home.
voldemort_harry: Fred? George? What're you doing here?
voldemort_harry: Diagon Alley!
voldemort_harry: I'm fine, thanks. I'm just --
voldemort_harry: The train leaves at exactly eleven o'clock. We've missed it.
voldemort_harry: No offense, Ron, but are you sure you know how to fly this.
voldemort_harry: There! Up ahead! Look... Along a STEEP BRIDGE, a single line of TRAIN TRACKS appear.
voldemort_harry: I think we found the train. 35 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - FLYING CAR - NIGHT 35 As HOGWARTS CASTLE comes INTO VIEW, the Anglia ENTERS FRAME.
voldemort_harry: UP! UP! Ron SHIFTS desperately. The Anglia LURCHES up, barely clears the castle wall. Harry and Ron exchange a look of relief, when... the car GROANS again, LURCHES... downward.
voldemort_harry: Reverse! Reverse! Ron SHIFTS, the CAR SHOOTS BACKWARDS, and the willow PUMMELS THE TREAD-MARKED GROUND they just vacated. Safely clear, the doors fly open, the seats tip sideways, and Ron and Harry are ejected. As they hit the ground, their trunks fly from the boot, Hedwig's cage rockets out the back window, and Hedwig herself flaps into the night. Taillights blazing angrily, the BATTERED car speeds off, fishtailing into the Dark Forest.
voldemort_harry: You're doomed. FLASH! -- a LIGHT BLINDS Harry. He blinks, finds a small boy (COLIN CREEVEY) standing before him with a CAMERA.
voldemort_harry: That... voice. Didn't you hear it?
voldemort_harry: I can't explain it -- it was... scary. (frowning) D'you think I should've told them -- Dumbledore and the others, I mean.
voldemort_harry: (eyeing Snape) I wouldn't bet on that.
voldemort_harry: Rictusempra! A jet of SILVER LIGHT hits Malfoy dead in the stomach. He doubles up, WHEEZING.
voldemort_harry: (in Parseltongue) LEAVE HIM! The snake hovers a moment more, then -- miraculously -- slumps to the floor. Harry blinks, as if coming out of a trance, grins curiously at the snake, and offers his hand to Justin.
voldemort_harry: I know. I mean, I accidentally set a python on my cousin Dudley at the zoo once. But so what? I bet loads of people here can do it.
voldemort_harry: Who am I, Hedwig? What am I? 73 INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 73 The trio study. Harry, burdened by dark thoughts, looks up at Ron. He smiles at Harry, then, seconds later, Hermione does the same -- something forced about it all. Unable to bear it, Harry gathers his books, gets up from the table. As Harry walks, students glance up, meet his gaze, then look away. Even MADAM PINCE eyes him from her desk. Ginny Weasley, tired and pale, scribbles furiously in a SMALL BLACK BOOK. Harry exits, walks into the hallway and pauses. From inside a room, the VOICES of a group of Hufflepuffs can be heard.
voldemort_harry: It's nothing. I'd better get going. I've got a lot of studying... 75 INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 75 Harry enters, slows. Up ahead, in the light of a FLICKERING TORCH, something DARK lies. A WINDOWPANE RATTLES in the WIND and the torch... goes out. Harry steps closer, finds... Justin-Finch-Fletchley. Lying rigid on the floor, a look of shock on his frozen face. Nearby, an inert Nearly Headless Nick floats, body teeming with BLACK SMOKE. Kneeling, Harry notices a TRAIL OF SPIDERS scuttling away from Justin's body and out the loose windowpane... when suddenly... ... Harry senses someone watching him, wheels McGonagall.
voldemort_harry: Harry Potter.
voldemort_harry: Nothing.
voldemort_harry: Why would I throw something at you?
voldemort_harry: It was Hagrid. Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty years ago. 100B EXT. HOGWARTS - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY 100B CAMERA SOARS high over the castle, as below, students hurry to their classes. Finally, it FINDS
voldemort_harry: And they found it... Tom Riddle's diary is gone. 105 EXT. HOGWARTS GROUNDS - DAY 105 Students stream into the Quidditch Stadium. 105A INT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - DAY 105A Harry, dressed in his Quidditch robes, dashes down the staircase with Ron and Hermione. Down below, Ron spies Ginny.
voldemort_harry: We've got to talk to Hagrid, Ron. I can't believe it's him. But if he did set the monster loose last time -- even by accident -- he'll know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets. And that's a start.
voldemort_harry: You heard Hagrid. Follow the spiders.
voldemort_harry: But if Hagrid never... that means... you're not the monster.
voldemort_harry: Can you get us in the air?
voldemort_harry: Wish you were here, Hermione. We need you. Now more than ever... Just then, the mirror in Ron's hand CATCHES the LATE AFTERNOON SUNLIGHT and casts a jagged FLAME across Hermione's hand. Harry watches the light dance over her fingers... then looks closer. Sees the paper clutched there. 124 INT. CORRIDOR - DUSK (LATER) 124 Harry and Ron duck into an alcove, take out the CRINKLED paper, which, we see now, is TORN from a library book.
voldemort_harry: We'll find her, Ron. Ginny's going to be fine.
voldemort_harry: Are you going somewhere?
voldemort_harry: You wrote them!
voldemort_harry: This is it, Ron. This is the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets.
voldemort_harry: All right. Let's go.
voldemort_harry: Remember. Any sign of movement, close your eyes straight away. Harry leads the way down the tunnel. CRUNCH! They look down a rat's skull. All around them, the ground is littered with TINY SKELETONS. Ron squints, sees something HUGE and CURVED lying ahead. When he speaks, his voice is hollow with dread.
voldemort_harry: See you in a bit. Harry glances at the snake skin at his feet, moves off. He steps carefully through the shadows until he reaches a TOWERING STONE WALL, carved with TWIN SERPENTS.
voldemort_harry: Are you a ghost?
voldemort_harry: No... she couldn't -- she wouldn't.
voldemort_harry: Hagrid's my friend. And you framed him, didn't you?
voldemort_harry: You. You're the heir of Slytherin. You're Voldemort?
voldemort_harry: You were brilliant, Fawkes. I just... wasn't quick enough. Then Harry blinks, looks down. Thick pearly TEARS are trickling down Fawkes' face and onto his arm. Almost instantly, his wound... begins to heal itself.
voldemort_harry: Of course. Dumbledore told me. Phoenix tears have healing powers. (looking up at Ginny) It's all right, Ginny. It's over. It's just a memory... 134 INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT (LATER) 134 With Fawkes gliding gracefully ahead of them, Harry and Ginny make their way back. Up ahead, SHIFTING ROCK can be heard and a jagged fissure of LIGHT GLIMMERS. Ron's face appears.
voldemort_harry: Where's Lockhart? Harry eyes Lockhart, sitting by himself, HUMMING placidly.
voldemort_harry: There's no Hogwarts without you, Hagrid. Just then... Dumbledore gets to his feet and... slowly... brings his hands together. The others join him. Soon, everyone is on their feet and the Hall ROARING. As the students surround Hagrid, he blinks, wipes at his eyes, and... CAMERA PULLS BACK, THROUGH the window, leaving the celebration. WE CONTINUE TO CRANE BACK... BACK... TO a WIDE SHOT OF HOGWARTS... glittering gloriously in the night. FADE TO BLACK.
voldemort_harry: uncle vernon. i need you to sign this form.
voldemort_harry: yes.
voldemort_harry: anywhere's better than here.
voldemort_harry: 'the state of things' sir?
voldemort_harry: egypt! what's it like?
voldemort_harry: faster! come on! the trace of a smile forms on harry's lips as he closes on the snitch... only yards away... reaching out... when...
voldemort_harry: brilliant! where'd you get it?
voldemort_harry: the one-eyed...
voldemort_harry: expecto patronum! harry's hand trembles. his whole body trembles. but he holds his ground, when -- whoosh! -- a huge silver shadow bursts from the end of his wand, hovering between him and the dementor. the dementor falters... harry's legs like water...
voldemort_harry: hagrid... everyone turns. looks. dumbledore and fudge approach. behind them, in a fluttering shroud of crows, the executioner follows, axe at his side. hagrid begins to panic.
voldemort_harry: sirius! the dog yelps, roars in pain, and the werewolf flings it into the tall grass. as it charges after, harry pushes past snape, dashes into the night. hermione makes to follow, but snape holds her back.
voldemort_harry: hermione! will you please tell me what it is we're doing?! she holds up a hand, silencing him. annoyed, harry follows her gaze and blinks in disbelief. across the grounds...
voldemort_harry: let's go.
