	environment: Diagon Alley was completely empty because of the coronavirus.	hagrid: Where is everybody?	albus dumbledore: Hopefully at home.Ron: They're not home. They're going to school.
Hermione: (rising from her desk) I've got a few things I've got to take care of.
Environment: They're walking down an empty street in the night. They pass a statue of a hunched over a sickly grey form. it reads MAJ
Harry: , iv. voldemort.
Harry_as_voldemort: Diagon Alley.
Hermione: (rising from her desk) I've got a few things I've got to take care of.
Environment: _Across the street_, inside a shop. the boy, TOM RIDDLE, is inside, buying his first muggle clothes.
Harry_as_voldemort: Well, what are those?
Harry: Diagon Alley.
Environment: purchasing his first set of clothes, as he nicknames them.
Harry_as_voldemort: These are my new favorite muggle clothes. You should wear them. They're—"
Environment: he's in a quidditch tower, facing a brick wall. ron and hermione are striding toward him with cartwheels.
Harry_as_voldemort: Tom, you're in Gryffindor!
Harry_as_voldemort: Ravenclaw. Hufflepuff. And you?
Harry_as_voldemort: Ravenclaw. Hufflepuff. And you?
Harry_as_voldemort: {snickers} You know, Harry. If it weren't for Slytherin and the Slytherins --
Hermione: voldemort. i can't believe i'm actually going to be going to school with you.
Harry_as_voldemort: You're going to Hogwarts, aren't you?
Hermione: i'm really not sure what to do with myself. we've got to help Harry, sir.
Hagrid: we've got to help Harry, sir.
Hermione: where are you?
Hagrid: (in a fierce whisper) not Slytherin. They laugh.
Harry_as_voldemort: i have a few things to say, sir.
Hermione: where are you?
Harry_as_voldemort: i have a few things to say, sir.
Hermione: where are you?
Harry_as_voldemort: i have a few things to say, sir.
Hermione: where are you?
Harry_as_voldemort: go on.
Tom riddle: well, well, well. hagrid helps harry into his bed, then leaves him to it to... sleep.
Harry_as_voldemort: {snores}
Harry_as_voldemort: A.K.A. THE BURROW.
Harry_as_voldemort: I went about my daily activities as if nothing happened.
Harry: i feel... refreshed.
Harry_as_voldemort: You have twenty-seven hours.
Harry: well, i guess i got something.
Harry: i felt... refreshed.
Harry: i felt... refreshed.
Hermione: what happened?
Hermione: you're... dead.
Hermione: me? maybe you're dreaming. i just thought, hey, if harry's memory's any indication, he might be able to help us sort
Hermione: that's not good.
Albus dumbledore: It can't be done. It's too complicated.
Harry: you don't think it was Snape, do you?
Albus dumbledore: Very well then. I'll just be going. You'll still have to wait outside, of course, but i expect you'll be able to find
Harry: yes.
Albus dumbledore: we should tell him what we're doing. he might be able to stop us being seen.
Harry: and you?
Environment: dark. ominous. dementors drift in the distance. ron lies awake, staring at the empty bed.
Albus dumbledore: you do not want this at night!
Environment: his glasses. as he looks at them, hagrid comes over, smokes a blunt and...
Albus dumbledore: ron! she turns, goes the wrong way.
Environment: he's thrown onto the bed, wearing nothing but his nightgown. as he's stood up, he's wearing nothing but his nightcap.
Harry: i don't think i need to see this man.
Environment: he's dressed in rags, wand at his side.
Snape: i don't know how this house came to be, but i'm going to expect it to act as i see fit. no one here cares what
Ron: i can't believe he's letting that snake go!
Harry: i don't think he'd want us to kill him.
Snape: if you want proof that you've been in there, show yourself. prove yourself.
Ron: whew, this is going to be bad. this is going to be really, really bad. as ron draws back in disgust, the snake
Snape: nothing, harry. they'd know i wasn't who i pretended to be. and i'm sure they'd like to have another word with me
Ron: you'd better clear off before that snake of a son gets himself bitten. if he doesn't, i'll kill him.
Harry_as_voldemort: you must be joking, harry. they'd know i wasn't who i pretended to be. and i'm sure they'd like to have another
Ron: if you want proof that you've been in there, show yourself. prove yourself.
Hermione: ron, you're denying yourselves!
Harry_as_voldemort: hiding. i assumed they'd find me. but they haven't.
Hermione: that's not good.
Ron: that's no time for idle talk. harry_as_voldemort is about to kill snape.
Snape: here! crack! -- the dementor vanishes and a roiling mist appears, which becomes clouds. hermione notices a peculiar smell.
Tom riddle: not to be rude or anything, but this is the seventh time this month he's summoned you to the castle. it's obvious he's trying to
Harry: professor, i swear i didn't!
Harry_as_voldemort: you may recall, prior to the start of term, i did express my concerns when you appointed professor --
Ron: nox.
Harry_as_voldemort: i should tell you, while we know you both have epilepsy, its treatable. and if you need to be warded against, i suggest making
Tom riddle: that'd be a cheerful house, wouldn't it? easy on the eyes. and free from all the... clutter?
Ron: yes.
Tom riddle: i don't know how this house came to be, but i'm going to expect it to act as i see fit.
Snape: you may recall, prior to the start of term, i did express my concerns when you appointed professor --
Tom riddle: you go to bed. harry paces. looks around. hears laughter. breaks off a cookie, hands it to snape.
Ron: good to see you're having fun.
Snape: mr. potter. we have information regarding you that requires your immediate attention. as a matter of policy, the castle's grounds are not to
Harry: sirius. sirius.
Albus dumbledore: i should tell you, lupin, earlier this evening your nephew, tom, was found hanging from a noose in the manor courtyard.
Harry: you said ron. i saw him. across the lake... just then, voices.
Snape: if you don't mind, i'm going to bed.
Environment: snape is escorted into the dungeons
Ron: that's what you said to it.
Albus dumbledore: i should tell you, lupin, earlier this evening your nephew, tom, was found hanging from a noose in the manor courtyard.
Hagrid: you wish you were still alive, harry.
Hermione: yes.
Harry: you're not mad, shem.
Albus dumbledore: that's when the basilisks go into effect.
Harry: you're not mad, shem.
Hermione: that's what you said to it.
Albus dumbledore: you go to bed. now.
Snape: you might want to keep a closer eye on yourself, sir.
Ron: but... what do you expect me to do?
Albus dumbledore: excellent.
Ron: that's not good.
Albus dumbledore: brilliant.
