Environment: Harry washes his face with a towel.
Hermione: There's no sign of them. There's just... silence.
Environment: They were walking through fog and shadows.
Harry: We've been roundly bitten, haven't we?
Environment: They stop as they see someone walking around the corner.
Harry: That's not good.
Ron: That's not good. I can't believe they're going to kill harry.
Harry: That's not good. I can't believe they're going to kill harry.
Hagrid: Round up the rats. Sack them into the Priory.
Hermione: There's something the both of you need to see.
Harry: Look. The monster of the year is dead. Sirius Black has been killed.
Albus dumbledore: It was a despicable crime, Hagrid. It was a despicable crime to kill Sirius Black.
Hagrid: You'd better clear out. There's some sort of attack going on in the castle.
Hermione: (taking harry's arm) Come on. Run. You're wasting time.
Albus dumbledore: Headmaster, we've received intelligence that a group is preparing to attack the castle.
Hagrid: That's not good.
Environment: They approach a flat ground with gnarled roots all over.
Harry: The group walks along a path to a castle.
Albus dumbledore: There's an attack going on in the castle.
Hermione: There's something the both of you need to see.
Albus dumbledore: There's an attack going on in the castle.
Hermione: (rising from her bedroom) I've got to go. I've got to find my dad.
Hagrid: Breakfast, Hagrid.
Environment: dumbledore is leading the group to a balcony overlooking the common room, where a cloaked man is standing next to a tree.
Snape: There is an attack going on in the castle.
Hermione: I can't believe they're actually going to attack the castle. It's too far gone.
Environment: breakfast. breakfast.
Hermione: Professor, what exactly does the basilisk do?
Snape: Everyone is to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Environment: dumbledore and hermione are walking through the garden, talking.
Hermione: Everyone's to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Snape: Everyone's to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Harry: Everyone's to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Hagrid: Everyone's to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Hermione: Everyone's to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Hagrid: Everyone's to stay inside. There's an attack coming.
Hermione: Come on, Harry.
Hagrid: Breakfast, Hagrid.
Hermione: I've got a few questions for Hagrid.
Snape: You go back to the owls. I want to know what you're doing.
Albus dumbledore: You go back to the owls.
Hagrid: I've got news for you, Miss Granger. You're wasting time. Go on. Go on.
Albus dumbledore: Excellent.
Hagrid: I've got to find my dad.
Hermione: I can't believe I'm meeting this guy.
Albus dumbledore: Very well. Then I shall kill him.
Harry_as_voldemort: Severus... I had you looked into it. There is much I would like to learn...
Albus dumbledore: What are you looking at? {Harry looks at a drawing of a bull with a snake entwined around its head.}
Harry_as_voldemort: I've got something of yours. Harry_has_something_of_sorts.com
Albus dumbledore: Yes, Harry?
Harry: Everyone's fine.
Albus dumbledore: About time too. I've been looking a bit... nervous.
Harry: What are those?
Albus dumbledore: I have a few... questions for... Hagrid.
Harry: I've got a few... questions for... Hagrid.
Harry_as_voldemort: You must be Tom Riddle.
Tom riddle: Professor Dumbledore.
Harry_as_voldemort: You must be Tom Riddle.
Environment: hagrid and others are in the hall.
Tom riddle: It's not wise to be wandering around this late, Tom.
Harry_as_voldemort: You must be Harry.
