environment: A neighbourhood on a street called Privet Drive. An owl, sitting on the street sign flies off to reveal a mysterious appearing old man walking through a forest near the street. He stops at the start of the street and takes out a mechanical device and zaps all the light out of the lampposts. He puts away the device and a cat meows. The man, ALBUS DUMBLEDORE, looks down at the cat, which is a tabby and is sitting on a brick ledge.
environment: The cat meows, sniffs out and the camera pans back to a wall. The cats shadow is seen progressing into a human. There are footsteps and MINERVA MCGONAGALL is revealed.
environment: There is a motor sound, and the two professors look up to see a flying motorcycle coming down from the air. It skids on the street and halts. A large man, RUBEUS HAGRID, takes off his goggles.
environment: Hagrid hands a baby in a blanket over to Dumbledore.
environment: They stop outside a house.
environment: Hagrid coughs and sniffles, he is crying. He clears his throat.
environment: Hagrid nods. Dumbledore takes a letter and places it on the baby, who is now at the foot of the door. The baby has a visible lightning-bolt shaped scar on his forehead.
environment: The camera pans into the scar and the opening title shows:
environment: HARRY POTTER AND THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE
environment: Almost ten years after the: DURSLEY's home. The camera pans on a sleeping boy, almost eleven, with a lightning-bolt shaped scar on his forehead.
environment: There is a click, and knocking. Outside, a tall woman, PETUNIA DURSLEY, raps the door.
environment: A large, tubby boy, DUDLEY DURSLEY, suddenly comes running down the stairs above the closet. He stops half-way down and goes back, jumping on the staircase.
environment: Dudley laughs, comes down the stairs and runs for the kitchen. The boy, HARRY POTTER, tries to come out of the closet, but is pushed back in by Dudley.
environment: Petunia is in the kitchen, where Dudley has gone.
environment: A larger man, VERNON DURSLEY, is sitting at the kitchen table.
environment: Petunia and Dudley giggle together. Harry comes into the kitchen, dressed in rags.
environment: He sets to work.
environment: Petunia leads Dudley over to the family room, where there are a vast amount of presents. Dudley stares.
environment: Outside, morning. The happy family is heading to the car. Harry goes to get in but is stopped by Vernon.
environment: The zoo. The family is in the reptile house, looking at a large BOA CONSTRICTOR.
environment: Vernon raps the glass of the cage.
environment: Dudley raps the glass much harder, and Vernon winces.
environment: Dudley and his parents retreat to another enclosure. Harry is left with the snake.
environment: The snake looks up and blinks.
environment: The now awake snake has attracted Dudley's attention. He rips over to the cage, knocking Harry to the floor.
environment: Dudley puts his hands on the glass wall. Harry, from the ground, glares at him. Suddenly, the glass disappears. Dudley wretches forward.
environment: Dudley falls into the snake enclosure, sputtering in a pool of water. The snake gets out of the exhibit, stopping in front of Harry.
environment: The snake starts off.
environment: There is a lot of screaming as the snake heads for freedom. Dudley gets up to get out, but the glass is now back over the enclosure. He is stuck. He pounds the glass.
environment: Vernon glares down at him and Harry's grin disappears. Petunia continues screaming: How did you get in there? Dursley, oh, Dursley!
environment: Back at the Dursley's. Petunia and a bundled up Dudley come in.
environment: They disappear around the corner. Harry and Vernon enter. Vernon slams the door and shoves Harry against a wall, taking his hair.
environment: Outside, some time later. An owl flies by the house and drops a letter, which zooms in the letterbox. It lands away from the house and hoots.
environment: Harry, inside, goes to collect the mail. He sorts through the letters and sees his, addressed to him. He goes into the kitchen, hands Vernon the rest of the mail, and walks around the other side of the table to see his letter.
environment: The family gathers to look at the address. There is a broken seal on the letter. The family looks up and Harry gulps.
environment: Another owl flies by with a letter and drops it off. Inside, Vernon grabs a handful of letters and rips them up.
environment: In the closet, Harry hears a whirring noise. He looks out at Vernon drilling wood over the letterbox opening.
environment: Outside, Vernon and Petunia appear. Vernon is about to head off to work. Petunia kisses his cheek.
environment: She stops, looks and sees a bunch of owls.
environment: Inside. Vernon is tossing letters into the fireplace. Harry comes around the corner. Vernon grins evilly and tosses more in.
environment: Living/Family room. The family is sitting around, Harry is serving cookies.
environment: Dudley shrugs.
environment: A letter shoots out of the fireplace and zips across Vernons face. There is a rumbling and then zillions of letters come shooting out of the fireplace.
environment: Petunia and Vernon: {Screaming}
environment: Harry jumps onto the coffee table to grab a letter. He gets one and starts to run away. Vernon jumps up as well.
environment: He chases Harry and grabs him before Harry gets into his closet.
environment: A house, on a rock island somewhere out at sea. The family is sleeping, with Harry on the cold, dirt floor. He has drawn a birthday cake which reads, Happy Birthday Harry. Harry looks at Dudley's watch, which beeps 12:00.
environment: Suddenly, the door thumps. Harry jumps. The door thumps again and Dudley and Harry jump up and back away. Petunia and Vernon appear, Vernon with a gun. The door bangs again and then cracks open, and a giant man appears.
environment: Hagrid comes over, grabs the gun and bends it upwards.
environment: Harry appears: I-I am.
environment: Hagrid sits down on the couch, takes out an umbrella and points it at the empty fire. Poof, poof! Two sparks fly out and the fire starts. The family gapes.
environment: Hagrid hands Harry the same letter that has been sent the past while. Harry opens it.
environment: Hagrid sees Dudley eating Harry's cake, and points the umbrella at his rear. A grey tail grows.
environment: Harry grins, looks back, and grins again.
environment: Streets of London. Hagrid and Harry are walking.
environment: They go to a corner store and enter, The Leaky Cauldron.
environment: {Music and talking}
environment: Barkeep Tom: Ah, Hagrid! The usual, I presume?
environment: The pub goes silent. A man comes up and shakes Harrys hand.
environment: A witch comes up and shakes Harrys hand, as well.
environment: A man in robes with a turban on his head appears. It is PROFESSOR QUIRRELL.
environment: The two leave into a back room winery in front of a brick wall.
environment: Welcome, Harry, to Diagon Alley.
environment: Harry grins broadly as they step into the street and walk down it. An owl screeches.
environment: Harry is amazed as they pass by shops and owls and bats. The camera pans on a broom store, where a group of boys are crowded around a shiny broom.
environment: Inside the bank, they walk down the shiny aisle, passing tiny creatures working.
environment: The goblin looks up.
environment: Racing down the depth caverns in a cartlike structure. The cart stops, a goblin, GRIPHOOK, clambers out.
environment: The room is filled nearly top to bottom with coins. Harry is amazed.
environment: They continue on through the cavern.
environment: Harry nods.
environment: Harry goes into the store, quietly. He looks around. There are shelves of wands, but no people.
environment: There is a thunk. A man appears on a ladder and looks at Harry. He smiles.
environment: There is a knock on the window.
environment: {Harry looks around}
environment: A flashback ensues, consisting off a cloaked man walking towards a house, breaking in with his wand, and proceeding to terrorize. Hagrid narrates.
environment: A couple look at Hagrid.
environment: Harry looks at his golden ticket.
environment: Harry sees a train master.
environment: A woman, daughter, and four boys walk by, pushing carts.
environment: Mrs. Weasley: It's the same year after year. Always packed with Muggles, of course.
environment: Mrs. Weasley: Come on. Platform 9 ¾ this way! All right, Percy, you first.
environment: A tall boy with red hair comes forward and runs towards a brick wall. Amazingly, he disappears right into it. Harry is amazed.
environment: Mrs. Weasley: Fred, you next.
environment: Mrs. Weasley: Oh, I'm sorry, George.
environment: Harry shakes his head in disbelief.
environment: Mrs. Weasley: How to get on the platform? Yes, not to worry, dear. It's Ron's first time to Hogwarts as well. {pan to a red haired boy who smiles} Now, all you've got to do is walk straight at the wall between platforms 9 and 10. Best do it at a bit of a run if youre nervous.
environment: Ginny (daughter): Good luck.
environment: Harry takes a breath and runs at the wall. He shuts his eyes and emerges on the other side a magnificent station with a red train and bundles of people. A whistle blows, and Harry sighs with relief.
environment: {Ron goes agape.}
environment: A trolley comes by the compartment, full of sweets.
environment: Ron's rat, Scabbers, is perched on Ron's knee, a box over its head.
environment: Harry quickly takes the bean he was chewing out of his mouth.
environment: A girl, HERMIONE GRANGER, with bushy brown hair appears at the doorway.
environment: {Zap. Nothing happens. Ron shrugs.}
environment: Harry and Ron walk up to Hagrid.
environment: A number of boats are plugging across a vast lake, where up ahead a huge castle can be seen. People are in awe.
environment: NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM, a scared looking boy, spots his toad sitting near McGonagall. He jumps forward.
environment: DRACO MALFOY, a slicked back evil looking boy speaks up.
environment: Draco glares. McGonagall returns and smacks him on the shoulder with a paper. He retreats with one last glare.
environment: She leads everyone through two large doors and into the Great Hall, where there are four long tables with many kids, as well as floating candles. The roof appears to be the sky.
environment: Dumbledore rises from the main table.
environment: Harry nods in agreement.
environment: Sorting Hat: Ah, right then...hmm...right. Okay...Gryffindor!!
environment: (Cheering)
environment: Hermione jumps off with a smile.
environment: Draco saunters up proudly. The tattered hat nearly freaks before touching down on Dracos head.
environment: Sorting Hat: SLYTHERIN!
environment: A small, redhead goes up.
environment: Harry looks around and spots a black haired, pale teacher, SEVERUS SNAPE, looking at him. His scar hurts.
environment: Sorting Hat: Let's see...I know...Hufflepuff!
environment: Ron gulps and walks up. He sits down and the hat is put on.
environment: Sorting Hat: Ah! Another Weasley. I know just where to put you...Gryffindor!!
environment: (Cheering)
environment: Everything goes silent. Harry walks up and sits down.
environment: Sorting Hat: Hmm...difficult, very difficult. Plenty of courage I see, not a bad mind, either. There's talent, oh yes, and a thirst to prove yourself. But where to put you?
environment: Sorting Hat: Not Slytherin, eh? Are you sure? You could be great, you know. Its all here in your head. And Slytherin will help you on your way to greatness! There's no doubt about that! No? {Harry whispers: Not Slytherin...anything but Slytherin} Well, if youre sure...better be...GRYFFINDOR!!
environment: There is an immense cheering and Harry goes to the Gryffindor table.
environment: Fred and George are also there, and cheer: We got Potter! We got Potter! Harry sits down.
environment: Food magically appears on all the tables, and the hall is filled with awe and chatter.
environment: Draco looks at all the food, raises his eyebrows and digs in.
environment: Ron stuffs his face.
environment: SEAMUS FINNIGAN, a tiny boy, speaks.
environment: Neville laughs.
environment: Harry is sitting next to Percy. He leans over.
environment: Ron, having just finished a chicken wing, reaches into the bowl for more, and a ghostly head, SIR NICHOLAS, pops out.
environment: Numerous ghosts come pouring from the walls, sailing along.
environment: Hufflepuff ghost: Whoo-hoo-hoo!
environment: Percy is leading the Gryffindors to the staircases.
environment: The camera pans up and we see a vast amount of staircases, people walking on them, and some switching places.
environment: Man in painting: Welcome to Hogwarts.
environment: Approaching the Gryffindor dorms. They come up to a large painting of a large woman in a pink dress.
environment: The cat jumps off the desk and turns into Professor McGonagall. The two boys are amazed.
environment: Hermione nudges Harry in the ribs. He looks up.
environment: Seamus is trying a spell on a cup.
environment: ZAPOOF! The cup explodes. There is laughter amongst the students. Suddenly, a flock of owls start coming into the hall from the rafters above.
environment: The owls soar by, dropping parcels to students. Harry gets nothing. He sees the newspaper Ron has put down.
environment: Neville is unwrapping a gift. It is a clear ball with gold around it.
environment: Harry's broom flies into his hand.
environment: Neville immediately lifts off. He looks quite frightened.
environment: He soars through the sky and hits a wall, conking along it and then swooping off. All the while, he is screaming. He begins to zoom back towards the group of students. Hooch holds out her wand to stop him.
environment: Harry grabs his broom and runs to get on it. Hermione stops him.
environment: Harry is now in the air, across from Draco.
environment: Harry zooms after the ball, speeding towards a tower. Just as he is about to hit a window, from which McGonagall is working/watching, he catches it, and then heads back to the group. The students all cheer and run to see him.
environment: Boy 2: Oh, that was wicked, Harry.
environment: Fred and George approach and walk along with Ron and Harry.
environment: The staircase shudders and begins to move. The three grab the railings.
environment: Suddenly, a flame lights on a tall stone support. At that moment, the caretaker's cat, MRS. NORRIS, comes running in and meows. The group jumps.
environment: {meow}
environment: The group runs. Flames are lit as they go. They get to the end of the corridor, to a door. Harry grabs the handle, but it's locked.
environment: Filch appears at the start of the corridor with a light. Mrs. Norris looks at him.
environment: Back in the Gryffindor room. They are breathless.
environment: Harry nods.
environment: {The ball flutters out two delicate wings and jumps into the air. Harry keeps an eye on it.}
environment: {All practice.}
environment: Hermione straightens up and swishes her wand.
environment: Seamus begins swishing at his feather.
environment: BOOOM!!! Seamus' feather explodes. Flitwick gasps.
environment: Hermione bustles past, sniffling.
environment: {Ron and Harry exchange glances. Suddenly, Professor Quirrell comes flying into the room, screaming.}
environment: The room is silent, and then everyone freaks, screaming and running.
environment: Snape looks aghast, and he disappears through a doorway.
environment: The two run off, down corridors. They start running down a hall when they stop, because there is a grunting noise. Harry pulls Ron into a doorway and a large, ugly TROLL thunks by into a room.
environment: The troll smashes the remaining stalls.
environment: Harry gets out his wand. He runs forward and grabs the troll's club, and is lifted up.
environment: The troll snorts, and whips around.
environment: The troll gets Harry off its head and is holding him by one leg, upside down. It gears up its club and swipes at Harry. He pulls himself up, then down. The troll swipes again.
environment: Ron grabs his wand. Under the sink, Hermione waves her hand.
environment: Hermione approaches carefully.
environment: Suddenly, McGonagall, Snape and Quirrell come rushing in.
environment: They all gasp.
environment: Ron and Harry: Well, what it is...
environment: Snape appears.
environment: {An owl screeches. It is Hedwig. She is carrying a very large, long parcel. She drops it off.}
environment: {They open it.}
environment: {He sees Professor McGonagall up at the head table, stroking Hedwig. She smiles and Harry nods.}
environment: Harry gulps and looks straight ahead as the doors open. They mount their brooms and zoom out onto the enormous pitch. There is cheering. The commentator, LEE JORDAN, is talking from a tower.
environment: {Cheering. Close-up of Gryffindor students. They are cheering. Neville: Gryffindor!}
environment: The players take their positions in the air in a circle. Harry weaves in, highest amongst. He looks down.
environment: The snitch zooms around each Seeker's head, then disappears. Hooch grabs the Quaffle.
environment: Gryffindor takes possession of the ball and a chaser, ANGELINA JOHNSON, zooms past Slytherins towards their goal, and throws the ball, and scores! There is a ding.
environment: Harry, in the air, claps.
environment: In the stands, Gryffindor cheers.
environment: Flint dodges people and throws for the Gryffindor hoops. Oliver appears and whacks the ball away with his broom. He smirks at Flint, who glares. Johnson and KATIE BELL pass the Quaffle back and forth as they strategize to score. Johnson takes it, throws, and once again scores!
environment: Ron and Seamus: Yay!
environment: The Slytherins decide to get messy. They dodge, kick, and try to score. Once again, Oliver blocks.
environment: Harry is visibly upset.
environment: Slytherin laughs.
environment: The Slytherin members head off. One jumps over George (or Fred) and scores. Harry is upset again. Slytherin cheers.
environment: They box Johnson in and sent her into the capes covering one of the towers. She falls down in and is out. The crowd boos. Slytherin scores once again. Suddenly, Harry sees the Snitch. He starts to head off after it and then his broom starts bucking and turning.
environment: Hermione looks through binoculars at Harry, then at Snape, who is muttering something.
environment: Harry is knocked around, then falls, dangling by one arm from the broom.
environment: Hermione is hurrying up a tower. She appears underneath Snape and touches his cloak with her wand.
environment: A spark ignites and Snape's cloak catches fire. Hermione leaves.
environment: Harry rams the Slytherin Seeker, then is butted out. He returns, smashing the Seeker again as the Snitch dives. The boys follow, but they approach the ground quickly. The Slytherin Seeker backs out, and Harry pulls up his broom as he follows the Snitch, feet above the ground. Harry stands up, and steps forward, trying to grab the ball. He goes too far, and topples off the broom with a yelp, tumbling on the ground. He gets up and lurches.
environment: The crowd gasps. Hermione appears beside a tower to see.
environment: Harry lurches and the Snitch pops out of his mouth. It lands in his hands.
environment: Harry raises the Snitch into the air and the crowd, and his team, cheers.
environment: Harry, Hermione and Ron are walking along a path with Hagrid, talking.
environment: A piece moves across the board.
environment: Ron thinks for a moment.
environment: A queen walks over to E-5 and clinks the knight away.
environment: Harry gets up and runs to a balcony overlooking the common room, where Ron is standing next to a tree. He is wearing a sweater with an R on it.
environment: Harry opens the present. It is a cloak.
environment: Harry puts the cloak on, and all of him disappears except for his head.
environment: Late at night. A lantern and hand appear, but nothing else. The ensemble walk through the dark library and into the Restricted Section. The lamp is put down, and the cloak removed. Harry appears.
environment: Harry picks up a book and opens it. A man's face appears.
environment: Harry slams the book shuts and puts it back.
environment: Filchs voice: Who's there?! {Harry whips around, grabbing his cloak. The lamp falls and shatters.} I know you're in there. You can't hide. {Harry puts on his cloak and creeps around Filch.} Who is it? Show yourself!
environment: Harry runs from the room, breathing heavily. He gets into the hall, where Mrs. Norris is. The cat meows and begins to follow him. Harry runs around a corner, just as Snape and Quirrell appear. Snape pushes Quirrell into the wall.
environment: Filch appears, carrying the broken lamp.
environment: They all dart off. A door opens, and closes. On the other side, there is a vast, empty room that has a large mirror in the center. Harry appears and walks over to the mirror. In it, he sees two people appear.
environment: The boys' room. Harry comes whipping in, invisible.
environment: Back in the mirror room. Harry and Ron appear as if magically and Harry runs to the mirror.
environment: Another night. Harry is sitting in front of the mirror. Dumbledore appears behind him.
environment: Daytime. It is all snowy. Harry is out in a main courtyard, bundled up, with Hedwig on his arm. He stops and she lifts off, soaring away into the sky. When she returns, it is spring time.
environment: In the library. Harry and Ron are seated, reading. Hermione comes up with a huge book. She thumps it onto the table. Harry jumps.
environment: Ron and Harry: The what?
environment: They all look at each other.
environment: Nighttime. Hermione, Ron and Harry are running across the wet ground to Hagrids hut. They knock on the door and it opens.
environment: All 3: We know about the Philosopher's Stone!
environment: {Door reopens.}
environment: {They all come into Hagrid's small hut.}
environment: {Hermione looks at Ron, who is being sniffed in the face by Fang. Ron shuffles away.} Ain't no one gonna get past Fluffy. Hehe, not a soul knows how. Except for me and Dumbledore. I shouldn't have told you that. I shouldn't have told you that. {A cauldron over a fire begins to rattle.} Oh! {Hagrid hurries over and grabs something} Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! {puts the thing, an egg, on the table. The group crowds around.}
environment: The egg rattles and cracks. Pieces fly off as a dragon emerges. It squeaks and slips on an egg piece.
environment: Norbert backs away, hiccups and blows a fireball of fire into Hagrid's beard.
environment: The three are walking back through a corridor. An owl screeches.
environment: They stop as McGonagall, in her nightgown, appears.
environment: Malfoy appears smugly beside her.
environment: McGonagall's classroom. The three accused are standing in front of McGonagall's desk, while Malfoy is feet away, smirking.
environment: Malfoy nods, then his smile vanishes.
environment: Harry, Ron and Hermione grin, and Draco sags.
environment: Outside, at night, the four students are being led to Hagrid's hut by Mr. Filch.
environment: Harry and Draco are walking through the forest, Fang leading. Draco has the lamp.
environment: The group approaches a flat ground with gnarled roots all over. Fang stops, then growls.
environment: Up ahead, a cloaked figure is crouched over a dead unicorn, drinking its blood. The figure raises its head, silver blood dripping from its mouth.
environment: Harry gasps and grabs his scar, which is hurting.
environment: Harry is left by himself. The figure slides over the unicorn and rises erect. It advances towards Harry, who backs up, but trips. He crawls backwards. Suddenly, there is the sound of hoofbeats. A figure leaps over Harry and lands near the cloaked figure. It is a silver centaur, FIRENZE. It rears, and the cloaked figure retreats, flying away.
environment: Suddenly, a dog (Fang) barks. Harry looks up and sees Hagrid, Hermione, Ron and Draco appear.
environment: {Close up on the dead unicorn.}
environment: Gryffindor common room. Right after 'attack.' The group is around the fire. Hermione and Ron are seated, but Harry stands.
environment: {The boys shrug.} Dumbledore! As long as Dumbledore's around, you're safe. As long as Dumbledore's around, you can't be touched. {Harry smiles slightly.}
environment: Some time later. In the outdoor courtyard. The three are walking.
environment: The three gape.
environment: McGonagall's classroom. The three come tearing in and run up the aisles between desks. They pass a ghost and stop at the desk.
environment: After exiting McGonagall's class, they walk down the hallway.
environment: {Snape suddenly appears behind them}
environment: Neville is frozen and falls backwards onto the ground. Hermione puts her wand back.
environment: The door opens and they go in.
environment: Drool from one head comes down on Ron's shoulder.
environment: Hermione manages a smile as she is sucked down below.
environment: Ron and Harry: Hermione!!
environment: Hermione's voice: Just relax!
environment: Hermione (from below): Do what I say. Trust me.
environment: Harry relaxes and is sucked through.
environment: Harry falls through and lands on the hard ground. Hermione goes over to him and he stands up.
environment: There is a sound.
environment: They enter into a room filled with golden "birds."
environment: {Ron creeps over to the door and takes out his wand.}
environment: Harry nods and grabs the broom. All the keys suddenly go one direction, right at Harry. He climbs on, swiping at them.
environment: Harry pushes off into the air. He flies off, after the key. The others follow him. Harry grabs the key.
environment: He zooms by and throws the key to Hermione, who catches it and heads for the lock while Harry distracts the other keys. Hermione puts it in the lock.
environment: The door opens, and Hermione and Ron rush through, followed by Harry. They shut the door just as the keys slam up against it.
environment: They enter a dark room, with broken pieces all around it.
environment: They walk across the board, towards the door. Suddenly, as they reach a line of pawns, the pawns bring up their swords. The three jump and back up.
environment: The game continues. Pieces smash each other, boom! Boom!
environment: Ron's horse moves forward, slides and stops.
environment: The Queen turns and advances. Ron breathes faster, clutching the steel reins. The Queen stops. SMASH! Ron goes flying off the horse and lands on the floor, unconscious.
environment: Harry nods and stands, walking away.
environment: Harry walks down a long staircase to an empty room with pillars around it. The Mirror of Erised is in the middle of the room, and a man is standing before it. It is Quirrell. Harry yelps and grabs his scar.
environment: {A raspy voice, VOLDEMORT, calls.}: Use the boy.
environment: Harry walks forward shakily.
environment: Harry looks in the mirror. He sees himself. His mirror self brings his hand into his pocket and takes out a red stone! The mirror self winks and puts the stone back. Very subtly, Harry reaches to his pocket. There is a lump. He gasps.
environment: Voldemort's voice: He lies.
environment: Voldemort's voice: Let me speak to him.
environment: Voldemort's voice: I have strength enough for this. {Quirrell unwraps his turban and on the side opposite his face, another face is planted. It is Voldemort who appears kind of like a snake. He stretches out and faces Harry via the mirror.} Harry Potter. We meet again.
environment: Harry turns and runs.
environment: Quirrell soars into the air and smashes into Harry, one hand on Harrys throat. They fall to the steps. The stone falls out of Harry's reach as Quirrell chokes him. Harry strains and squeaks. Suddenly, Harry puts his hand on Quirrell's, trying to get him off. Smoke furls from under his hand.
environment: Quirrell backs up, then his face, which is horrendously burned, crumbles as he walks forward. His whole body is ash. He falls to the floor. Harry gasps. He looks at his own hands and hurries over to the stone. He picks it up and sighs, when he hears something. Turning, Harry sees a dust clouds with Voldemort's face. The cloud rushes forward, right through Harry!
environment: The hospital wing. Harry is bandaged, lying in bed. He awakens, puts on his glasses, and sits up. There are cards and candy all over. Dumbledore approaches him.
environment: Harry approaches a room where up on a stairwell balcony Hermione and Ron are talking. They stop when they see Harry and lean over the railing.
environment: In the great hall. All students are seated, and green banners with snakes on them are around the ceiling.
environment: Dumbledore, at the head table, nods to McGonagall.
environment: She dings her glass and the chatter stops. Dumbledore rises.
environment: There is immense cheering.
environment: Immense cheering erupts. Neville is unbelieving, and sits there while cheering gets louder. Draco is downfallen.
environment: Cheering.
environment: All students stand and throw their hats into the air, except Draco, who smashes his down onto the table.
environment: All rub each other's hair and jump around, cheering and laughing.
environment: The outdoor train station. Students are walking around, getting in the train.
environment: Harry hands Hedwig to a train man, and walks to an open door of the train with Hermione. Hermione waves to Hagrid, who waves back. Hermione gets in the train.
environment: Harry opens the album and sees a picture, moving, of him as a baby with his parents. They are all smiling and waving. Harry smiles.
environment: Harry walks away, back to the train door where Hermione and Ron are waiting.
environment: The train whistles and they climb aboard. As the train starts to leave and the camera pans up over the whole scene, Harry waves out the window to Hagrid, who waves back and then waves more to other students as the camera pans far back, then the credits begin.
environment: 3 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY 3 Harry pages through a SCRAPBOOK, stops on a MOVING PHOTO of Ron and Hermione. SQUAWK! Harry jumps. HEDWIG pecks at the LOCK slung through her cage door, then glowers at Harry.
environment: . 4 HARRY
environment: . (2) 4 HARRY
environment: 6 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY 6 Harry enters, turns, and stops dead a tiny CREATURE with bat-like ears and bulging green eyes is jumping on his bed as if it were a trampoline. This is DOBBY.
environment: 4. 6 HARRY
environment: 5. 7 UNCLE VERNON
environment: 6. 8 HARRY
environment: 7. 10 HARRY
environment: . 11 DOBBY
environment: A. 11B
environment: UNCLE VERNON (CONT'D) (snatching the letter) You didn't tell us you weren't Allowed to use magic at home. Slipped your mind, didn't it? (CONTINUED)
environment: 9. (2) 11B
environment: UNCLE VERNON (CONT'D) Well, I've got news for you, boy. I'm locking you up! And if you try to magic yourself out, they'll expel you! You're never going back to that school! Never! 12 EXT./INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - NEXT DAY 12
environment: Uncle Vernon fits IRON BARS to the inside of Harry's window. Drills a METAL FLAP to the base of the bedroom door. Fits a FAT, GREY LOCK to the door itself. Soaking with sweat, he casts Harry a nasty grin and pulls shut the DOOR. It closes with the DULL CLANK of a cell. 13 INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 13 Harry stares gloomily out the window. The METAL FLAP RATTLES and Dudley's pudgy hand slides a BOWL of TINNED SOUP onto the floor. He grins cruelly through the opening.
environment: . 13 SAME SCENE - LATER
environment: Harry leans against the wall. Asleep. There is a gentle TAPPING SOUND. Harry opens his eyes and is stunned to see... RON WEASLEY staring through the bedroom window.
environment: thru thru
environment: 17 INT./EXT. HARRY'S BEDROOM/THE CAR - MOMENTS LATER 17 Harry pushes the trunk over the sill into the Anglia's boot, then scrambles through the window himself, when... SQUAWK!
environment: . 17
environment: Like a rocket, the Anglia sails into the stars. Harry glances back, sees Aunt Petunia and Dudley join Uncle Vernon at the window. As Hedwig races up, soaring just beyond the car window, Ron turns to Harry.
environment: 18 EXT. THE BURROW - EARLY MORNING 18 As the Anglia drops through a pink sky, a haphazard mess of a HOUSE, built around a towering central chimney, appears below. By the road, a lopsided SIGN reads THE BURROW. FLUMPH! The car touches down in a WHIRLING CONE of dust, scatters a group of chickens, and fishtails to a halt. The boys spill quickly out of the car. FRED WHISPERS urgently.
environment: . 19 MRS. WEASLEY
environment: . (2) 19 RON
environment: . (3) 19 MR. WEASLEY
environment: thru thru
environment: 24 INT. LIVING ROOM - THE BURROW - DAY (LATER) 24 Everyone has gathered in front of the large fireplace.
environment: . 24
environment: Percy takes a pinch from the pot, pitches it into the fireplace and BRIGHT GREEN FLAMES ROAR HIGH. To Harry's amazement, he calmly walks... straight into them.
environment: 17. 26
environment: DRACO MALFOY and his father, LUCIUS MALFOY, appear beyond the front window, approaching the shop. Harry glances about, spies a LARGE BLACK CABINET and slips inside. As he pulls the doors closed, a TINY CARD swings INTO VIEW Crushing Cabinet. Malfoy and his father enter. A stooped man (MR. BORGIN) emerges from the back room. IN THE CABINET, Harry watches, unaware that the walls around him are... SLOWLY CLOSING IN.
environment: 18. (2) 26 MR. BORGIN
environment: 19. 27
environment: The vendors here clearly cater to the Dark Arts SHRUNKEN HEADS, POISONOUS CANDLES. One window teems with SPIDERS. AGED WITCH (O.S.) Not lost are you, my dear? Harry wheels, looking into the mossy teeth of a decrepit WITCH. She holds a tray of HUMAN FINGERNAILS.
environment: 20. 28 HERMIONE
environment: 29A EXT. FLOURISH AND BLOTTS - DAY 29A
environment: GILDEROY LOCKHART. A handsome, golden-haired wizard with stunning pearl-white teeth. He miles, winks at the camera.
environment: . 29A
environment: DOLLY BACK to reveal that the image of Lockhart is actually a MOVING PHOTOGRAPH propped in the window. A PLACARD declares HERE TODAY! SIGNING COPIES OF HIS AUTOBIOGRAPHY, MAGICAL ME... GILDEROY LOCKHART! 30 INT. FLOURISH AND BLOTTS - DAY 30 Harry and the others thread their way through a CHATTERING THRONG of MIDDLE-AGED LADIES, all craning their necks for a view of Lockhart, who sits signing books at the rear of the shop. At the sight of him, Mrs. Weasley pats her hair.
environment: . 30
environment: As the crowd CLAPS, Lockhart catches the eye of a FLUNKY and, before Harry knows it, a towering stack of books is shoved into his arms. Mortified, Harry mumbles quietly.
environment: 23. (2) 30 LUCIUS MALFOY
environment: . (3) 30 MR. WEASLEY
environment: . (4) 30 HAGRID
environment: 30B EXT. KING'S CROSS - MORNING 30B Amid a neat line of cars, the Anglia sits at a decidedly odd angle, as if its driver were not the most skilled motorist.
environment: 32 INT. KING'S CROSS - DAY 32 The Weasleys and Harry -- pushing large TROLLEYS -- dash under the LARGE CLOCK which reads two minutes to eleven.
environment: . 32A
environment: MRS. WEASLEY (O.S.) Come, Ginny. We'll get you a seat. 32B INT. KING'S CROSS 32B Ron glances at the clock.
environment: . 33 HARRY
environment: 29. 34
environment: ... TILTING onto its side. As it jets under the bridge, Harry goes SLIDING DOWN ACROSS HIS SEAT, into the door, and... OUT. Dangling upside-down from the open door, he watches the Hogwarts Express ZIP PAST and, in one window, glimpses NEVILLE and SEAMUS, mouths open in astonishment.
environment: 30. 35
environment: ... Harry, Ron and car go pitching through the night. As Ron rakes the GEARS, they hurtle madly toward the CASTLE WALL.
environment: . (2) 35 HARRY/RON
environment: . 36 HARRY
environment: The Evening Prophet ENTERS FRAME. The HEADLINE reads FLYING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFIES MUGGLES. Below the fold a PHOTO shows Harry and Lockhart at Flourish and Blotts. CAMERA PULLS BACK, PROFESSOR SEVERUS SNAPE stands at his desk, newspaper in hand as Harry and Ron stare with dread. Filch lurks in the doorway, eying them with pleasure.
environment: 33. 37 SNAPE
environment: . (2) 37 RON
environment: 39 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - MORNING 39 The Whomping Willow sulks in the courtyard, SLINGS strung about its injured branches. CAMERA CRANES OVER the castle walls, REVEALING the exterior of GREENHOUSE THREE, where students hurry inside for the beginning of class. 40 INT. GREENHOUSE THREE - MORNING 40 As Harry and Ron enter, SEAMUS, NEVILLE and some of the other Gryffindors hover nearby.
environment: 35. 40 HERMIONE
environment: . (2) 40 SEAMUS
environment: . 41 RON
environment: A. (2) 41 NEVILLE
environment: 39.
environment: Lockhart rifles through the completed exams.
environment: . 42 GILDEROY LOCKHART
environment: 42B INT. SEVENTH FLOOR - CORRIDOR - LATER 42B Fresh from the pixies, Hermione, Ron, Harry and Neville walk. Hair askew. Robes shredded.
environment: . 42B HERMIONE
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 45 EXT. HOGWARTS - COURTYARD - DAY 45 The Gryffindor Quidditch team -- Harry, Fred, George, ALICIA SPINNET, KATIE BELL, and ANGELINA JOHNSON -- trail Oliver Wood through the courtyard, toward the distant Quidditch pitch. Several students are outside, studying.
environment: 42. 45 RON
environment: 43. (2) 45 DRACO
environment: 44. 46 HAGRID
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 49 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S OFFICE - EVENING (HOURS LATER) 49 CAMERA PANS the walls of Lockhart's office, lined with FRAMED PHOTOGRAPHS of... Gilderoy Lockhart. Harry and Lockhart work by candlelight at an ornate desk. Bleary- eyed, Harry addresses envelopes, while a cheery Lockhart puts his signature to the stack of GLOSSY PHOTOS bearing his image.
environment: 49. 49 HARRY
environment: . 49A HERMIONE
environment: thru thru
environment: 58 INT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - MOMENTS LATER 58 Harry dashes madly, taking the steps three at a time. He makes the landing, rushes through the archway, and... 59 INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT 59 ... sleds to a stop, listening Nothing. Slowly, he peers down. WATER is oozing over the stone floor, surrounding his shoes. His own REFLECTION appears and, behind it, undulating like a dream... WORDS. Ron and Hermione come huffing up.
environment: . 59 RON
environment: ENEMIES OF THE HEIR... BEWARE.
environment: . (2) 59 DUMBLEDORE
environment: . (3) 59 SNAPE
environment: . (4) 59 DUMBLEDORE
environment: 60A INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT (A BIT LATER) 60A Harry, Ron and Hermione walk down the corridor.
environment: . 60A HARRY
environment: 62 INT. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL'S CLASSROOM - MORNING McGonagall stands before the class. Resting on the desk in front of each student, is a different animal. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Today, we will be turning animals into water goblets. She taps the bird in front of her, three times, with the tip of her wand. It transfigures into a beautiful crystal water goblet. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Now, who would like to go first... Mr. Weasley? Ron nods. He TAPS his rat, Scabbers, who turns into a goblet with a tail. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL You must replace that wand, Mr. Weasley. Ron nods sheepishly, looks at his broken wand.
environment: . (A1) 62
environment: McGonagall sees Hermione's raised hand. Her untouched animal. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Yes, Miss Granger?
environment: 54. 62
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL (CONT'D) Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. Three of the founders co-existed quite harmoniously. One did not.
environment: . 63 HERMIONE
environment: 57. 64 HARRY
environment: . 65 HAGRID
environment: A. (1A) 65
environment: Harry continues on, CLOSING on the Snitch, fingertips only inches from catching it... when... the Rogue Bludger SMASHES INTO Harry's arm. Harry cries out, steadies himself and with a brilliant, acrobatic move, SNATCHES the Snitch out of the air with his good hand. Unable to control his broom with his shattered arm, he hits the pitch with a SICKENING THUD. Wincing, Harry rolls onto his shoulders, SQUINTS UP a BLACK DOT -- growing rapidly LARGER -- is plummeting from the sky, directly toward him. It's... the rogue Bludger. Instantly, Harry spins away, grimacing in agony, as the Bludger... ... hits the ground like a SLEDGE HAMMER, violently TATTOOING the pitch again and again, only inches from Harry. Calmly, Hermione strides forth, points her wand.
environment: 59. (3) 65 GILDEROY LOCKHART
environment: . 66 COLIN
environment: He SENSES something... a presence... when... Five BANDAGED FINGERS ENTER FRAME, begin to SPONGE his brow. Harry bolts upright, finds...
environment: A. (A1) 67 DOBBY
environment: 61. 67 DOBBY
environment: . (2) 67 HARRY
environment: A. (3) 67
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL What sould I tell the staff, Albus?
environment: 68A EXT. GIRLS BATHROOM 68A We PAN SLOWLY FROM the defiled wall to the bathroom door. 63. 69 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - DAY 69 A gloomy place. Cracked mirrors. Chipped sinks. Guttering candles. Harry and Ron huddle over a SMALL, BUBBLING CAULDRON, as Hermione adds STRANGE INGREDIENTS.
environment: . 70 GILDEROY LOCKHART
environment: 66. (2) 70 GILDEROY LOCKHART
environment: 67. (3) 70 SNAPE
environment: 68. 71 HARRY
environment: 69. (2) 71 RON
environment: . 73 ERNIE
environment: . 74 HAGRID
environment: . 75 FILCH
environment: 73. 77 SORTING HAT
environment: . (2) 77 DUMBLEDORE
environment: . 78 RON
environment: A. (A1) 79 HERMIONE
environment: . 79
environment: HERMIONE (CONT'D) Now, once they're asleep, hide them in a broom cupboard and pull out a few of their hairs.
environment: A. 81 HERMIONE
environment: 77. 81 HERMIONE
environment: being poured into three glasses. CAMERA PULLS BACK. Harry and Ron have changed into the Slytherin robes. All three raise their glasses. Drop the hairs. The potion turns shades of YELLOW, BROWN, and KHAKI.
environment: 78. (2) 81 RON
environment: . 83 EXT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 83 Harry and Ron hurry down the staircase.
environment: Harry and Ron move quickly, when... FOOTSTEPS sound. Seconds later, Percy appears at the end of the corridor.
environment: 80. 84 DRACO
environment: 86 INT. SLYTHERIN COMMON ROOM - NIGHT (LATER) 86 Harry and Ron trail Draco inside, glance around warily.
environment: 81. 86 DRACO
environment: 82. (2) 86
environment: DRACO (CONT'D) So it's only a matter of time before one of them's killed this time. As for me... I hope it's Granger. As Malfoy grins, Ron's fist rises... when Harry stops him.
environment: . 89
environment: As Harry and Ron exchange a puzzled glance, Moaning Myrtle spirals INTO VIEW, looking disturbingly... happy.
environment: . 90 HERMIONE
environment: 92 EXT. SECOND-FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 92 Harry and Ron mount the stairs, emerge.
environment: A. 92
environment: They stop. Look down. A GREAT FLOOD OF WATER streams from the Girls' Bathroom. From within, MYRTLE can be heard MOANING.
environment: 85. 93 MOANING MYRTLE
environment: . 94 RON
environment: DIARY. A GOLD EMBOSSED ADDRESS on the back reads WAXFLATTER'S BOOKSELLERS. 422 VAUXHALL ROAD.
environment: . 95
environment: CAMERA PULLS BACK. Harry sits with Hermione in the moonlit room. Hermione studies the diary curiously.
environment: . (2) 95 HERMIONE
environment: . 96
environment: Harry frowns. Then... slowly... new words ooze to the surface. But I can show you... Harry waits, intrigued. Then, suddenly... The pages FLUTTER WILDLY, stop on "June the 13th." On the page, a TINY SQUARE SHIMMERS... like a WINDOW. Harry lifts the book, puts his eye close and... PITCHES FORWARD, spilling through the widening window, into a WHIRL of COLOR and SHADOW, tumbling onto his feet... 97 INT. CORRIDOR/ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT (FIFTY YEARS AGO) 97 ... in torch-lit corridor. Everything is de-saturated, save for Harry, who retains the true, rich colors of the present. He glances about, disoriented, then spies a BOY (TOM RIDDLE) at the end of the corridor, peering around a corner. A FLURRY of SHADOWS dances on the wall beyond the boy, revealing the presence of others, unseen, in an adjoining room. As Harry advances, LOW VOICES emanate from the shadows. As he reaches the boy, Harry speaks in a WHISPER
environment: . 97 TOM RIDDLE
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 100 INT. CORRIDOR - DUNGEONS - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 100 Up ahead, a SPLINTER of LIGHT leaks through a DOOR. Riddle puts his eye to the crack. Inside, someone is SPEAKING.
environment: . 100
environment: VOICE (O.S.) C'mon, Aragog. Gotta get yeh outta here... C'mon now.. in the box... As Riddle pushes the door clear, Harry sees a second, smaller room. Crouched by a BOX, is a huge boy... YOUNG HAGRID. A STRANGE CLICKING comes from the BOX.
environment: . (2) 100
environment: As they tumble to the floor, the entire ROOM WHIRLS off its axis, spinning, and Harry finds himself plummeting through color and shadow again, falling flat on his back to... ... the floor of the Gryffindor Common Room, the ceiling above spinning, slowly, to a stop. Harry rises, dashes upstairs. 100A INT. BOYS' DORMITORY - NIGHT 100A Harry rushes to Ron, shakes him awake, WHISPERING INTENSELY.
environment: 102 EXT./INT. HOGWARTS GROUNDS - DAY (LATER) 102 Harry, Ron and Hermione walking together across the grounds.
environment: . 102 RON
environment: 104 INT. GRYFFINDOR TOWER DORMITORY - DAY 104 Harry's space is a disaster trunk riffled, drawers flung open, bedclothes strewn on the floor.
environment: . 104 RON
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 96. 105A
environment: But she's gone. Harry turns to Ron in puzzlement.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 97. 107
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL I warn you. This will be a bit of a shock. She opens the door. Madam Pomfrey is leaning over a bed where a girl lies. As she straightens up, we see the girl is...
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 98. 108 SEAMUS
environment: A drawer opens, a HAND reaches in, takes the INVISIBILITY CLOAK. CAMERA PULLS BACK, REVEALS Ron and Harry. All around them, the other boys sleep. Harry pitches the cloak over himself and Ron. They're gone.
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 112 INT. ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT 112 Harry and Ron, beneath the cloak, sneak by an unaware Snape.
environment: 99. 113 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 113 A KNOCK. Hagrid swings open the door. Crossbow in hand.
environment: 100. 114 RON
environment: 101. (2) 114 LUCIUS MALFOY
environment: 102. (3) 114 DUMBLEDORE
environment: thru thru
environment: 119 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 119 Harry illuminates the TRAIL OF SPIDERS. They run from the window to the ground, to the dark trees in the near distance. As Harry moves to follow, Ron hesitates.
environment: 121 EXT. DARK FOREST - NIGHT 121 Fang crashes through low-slung branches and sharp brambles as Harry follows. Ron gingerly picks his way, the JUMPS... as FANG HOWLS. BRANCHES SNAP. A RUMBLING NOISE sounds, then... SILENCE. Harry spies something, points O.S.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 104. 121 HARRY
environment: An ANCIENT SPIDER (ARAGOG), the size of a small elephant. As it advances, Harry and Ron back slowly away. Then its BLIND EYES catch the light, and it STOPS. As if... listening.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 105. 121A
environment: Hearing this, Aragog's head turns slightly.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 106. (2) 121A
environment: A SCRABBLING SOUND ECHOES above Ron. He GLANCES UP a SPIDER crouches on a branch above.
environment: A. (3) 121A
environment: They're done for. Fang WHIMPERS. The spiders draw closer, CLICKING FEVERISHLY, when... ... a LONG, LOUD HORN BLEATS. Seconds later, a BLAZE of LIGHT ignites the hollow and the FORD ANGLIA comes THUNDERING over the rim and down the slope, KNOCKING SPIDERS OUT OF ITS PATH. As it SCREECHES to a halt, the DOORS FLING OPEN.
environment: 107. 121B HARRY
environment: . 121D RON
environment: thru thru
environment: 123 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY 123 Madam Pomfrey bars the door, frowns at Harry and Ron.
environment: . 123
environment: Harry studies Hermione's face.
environment: . 124
environment: HARRY (CONT'D) ... And Hermione... had the mirror! I bet you anything she was using it to look round corners, in case it came along.
environment: . (2) 124
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL (V.O.) All students are to return to their house dormitories at once. All teachers to the second floor corridor. Immediately. 125 INT. SECOND FLOOR - CORRIDOR - DUSK (MOMENTS LATER) 125 McGonagall stands before the desecrated wall, surrounded by the rest of the staff. Harry and Ron creep up the stairwell. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL As you can see, the Heir of Slytherin has left another message. Our worst fear has been realized. A student has been taken by the monster. Into the Chamber itself. (as the teachers react) I'm afraid we shall have to send the students home. I'm afraid... this is the end of Hogwarts.
environment: . 125 GILDEROY LOCKHART
environment: /114. 126
environment: Ron nods, smiles shakily, and looks away. As he does, Harry's face changes, looks troubled. Even he doesn't believe what he's just said.
environment: 128 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S OFFICE - NIGHT 128 Harry and Ron DASH inside.
environment: 115. 128 HARRY
environment: 116. (2) 128 HARRY
environment: 130 INT. GIRLS' BATHROOM - NIGHT 130 Lockhart walks ahead of Harry and Ron, their wands pointed at him. Moaning Myrtle floats above the cistern.
environment: 117. 130 MOANING MYRTLE
environment: 118. (2) 130
environment: Lockhart steps grimly to the dark, gaping hole. Ron gives him a shove and he topples headfirst and out of sight. They wait. Finally... GILDEROY LOCKHART (O.S.) It's really quite filthy down here.
environment: 119. 132 RON
environment: . (2) 132 RON
environment: . 133 TOM RIDDLE
environment: . (2) 133 TOM RIDDLE
environment: . (3) 133 TOM RIDDLE
environment: . (4) 133 TOM RIDDLE
environment: . (5) 133
environment: TOM RIDDLE (CONT'D) No, I fashioned myself a new name, a name I knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to speak, when I became the greatest sorcerer in the world.
environment: . (6) 133 TOM RIDDLE
environment: A. 133A
environment: Thinking, Harry DUCKS INTO AN ALCOVE, puts his hand over his mouth and waits, desperate to remain STILL and SILENT. The snake slides heavily by, then... SLOWS. TURNS BACK. The snake's head weaves inside, only INCHES from Harry's face. Harry trembles as the snake's head cocks to the side, then... finally... WITHDRAWS. 133B INT. CHAMBER OF SECRETS - NIGHT 133B Harry DASHES back into the main chamber. Ginny looks frighteningly pale. Riddle GRINS cruelly, almost SOLID now.
environment: . 133B TOM RIDDLE
environment: A. (1A) 133B TOM RIDDLE
environment: . (2) 133B TOM RIDDLE
environment: 129. (3) 133B HARRY
environment: . 134 RON
environment: 135 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - DAY 135 Harry and Ron, covered in muck and slime -- stand in Dumbledore's office. Fawkes perches on a pedestal behind Dumbledore, who sits at his desk, examining the charred diary. He looks up, regarding Harry and Ron gravely.
environment: . 135
environment: Hearing this, Harry frowns in thought, recollecting...
environment: A. (1A) 135 DUMBLEDORE
environment: . (2) 135 HARRY/RON
environment: . (3) 135 DUMBLEDORE
environment: Suddenly, Lucius Malfoy enters, dragging... Dobby by the ear.
environment: . (5) 135
environment: Lucius Malfoy stares icily at Dumbledore, then turns away.
environment: . 135A DOBBY
environment: 137 INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 137 Fear and suspicion banished, the House tables abuzz with excitement and anticipation... all except the Slytherins, who do not share the general feeling.
environment: . 137
environment: Seated at the tables, are the formerly petrified, revived students. Justin Finch-Fletchley joins his fellow Hufflepuffs. Colin Creevey SNAPS photos of the proceedings. At the rear of the hall, standing near the entrance, Filch is reunited with Mrs. Norris. Then... Hermione enters, searching the room for Harry and Ron. Finally, she sees them. Smiles. Runs forward and embraces Harry.
environment: . (2) 137
environment: Ron exchanges a nervous glance with Dumbledore. Hagrid looks at all of the faces staring at him. He turns to Harry.
environment: a tent of blankets. within... the shadow of a boy. a
environment: a blinding blast of light flashes from the second story window of number four. dogs bark. and a title card appears:
environment: the light in the hallway snaps on, harry's tent droops once more and, seconds later, harry's door eases open. uncle vernon peers in and switches on the light. the room is utterly silent. slowly, he closes the door.
environment: harry! harry! harry bounds down the stairs and into the front hall, where his aunt petunia and cousin dudley stand stiffly. petunia flicks a bit of fluff from dudley's sweater, glowers crossly at harry, and jerks her head toward the door.
environment: the others race outside. as aunt marge begins to float away, uncle vernon grips her hands.
environment: boom! boom! boom! harry tows the trunk down the stairs... finds uncle vernon waiting for him.
environment: harry walks and walks and walks, then... stops. glances about. an empty playground. swings creaking gently on rusted chains. a tiny carousel, kissed gently by the wind, turning slowly. harry drops the trunk. sits. deep in the night, an alarm shrieks, goes silent. harry, still as a statue. listening. in the trees above, leaves tremble. the wind gathers. harry turns, studies the swaying swings, the carousel. then, he... stiffens. turns back. sensing something in the shadows across the street, he rises. slowly draws his wand. then he sees... it. something big. darker than the shadows which conceal it. something with wide, gleaming
environment: no seats. only beds. the brass frames need a shine, the lines a wash. in one bed, a disheveled wizard grunts, turns over in his sleep.
environment: the chandelier sways drunkenly as the bus doors open. the steps groan with heavy feet and a figure appears: tom, innkeeper of the leaky cauldron pub.
environment: as the knight bus rockets off, tom and harry are revealed, harry glances up, reads the sign above: the leaky cauldron. tom drags harry's trunk inside, then pauses and, with a flick of his wand, silences the car alarm.
environment: harry trails tom through the quiet room. the bartender glances up, his gaze lingering perhaps a bit too long. a solitary wizard reads a book while, at his elbow, his coffee cup stirs itself. tom leads harry upstairs.
environment: through the window: the rooftops of london. a train passes and camera pulls back, reveals harry, standing with hedwig. he turns, eyes his schoolbooks. he studies the growling tome -- the monster book of monsters -- then gives the rope a tug. instantly... ... the book leaps to the floor, pages flying, bookcovers snapping. harry gives chase, then the book turns, begins nipping viciously at his shoes. harry vaults atop the bed, watches the book disappear underneath, then grabs a
environment: a young witch in maid's robes pushes a cart down the hall. harry exits his room as the witch knocks on a door.
environment: something small and fast dashes by harry's feet. looking, he spies a rather ragged-looking rat (scabbers), pursued by a decidedly ugly orange cat (crookshanks).
environment: as harry moves down the stairs, voices come from below.
environment: he's a cat, ronald! what do you expect? it's in his nature. as harry reaches bottom, he finds ron weasley protectively cradling scabbers, while hermione grander does her best to restrain a hissing crookshanks.
environment: as they slip inside, they find a man in shabby robes (professor lupin) slumped against the window, asleep. he looks ill, exhausted. the trio eye him warily. whisper.
environment: ron and hermione stare at harry, faces stricken in the lantern light that now glows in the compartment. crookshanks slumbers in his cage.
environment: ... die. one by one. until all is...
environment: a thin wisp of steam escapes ron's mouth. harry notices.
environment: harry, ron, and hermione stare at each other -- stunned -- then applaud vigorously. hagrid turns ruby red, rises, and nearly topples the staff table, sending water goblets weaving.
environment: harry, ron and hermione arrive at the seventh floor landing and approach the fat lady in the portrait.
environment: the gryffindors trail through the common room, the girls heading one way, boys the other.
environment: harry continues to stare.
environment: as bridge and castle glimmer in the distance, hagrid emerges from the forbidden forest, dragging a fistful of dead ferrets by the tail. a bird appears, circles his head playfully, chirp-chirp-chirping merrily before it... ... flutters off, pin-wheeling past flowers, into a birdbath, finally coming to rest upon... ... an ancient tree. it twitters cheerfully, singing its lovely song, when -- thwock! -- a branch punts the bird into the air. as feathers fly, the whomping willow resumes its shape.
environment: harry, ron and hermione sit on fat little pouffes in a murky, incense-laden room, along with neville, dean, seamus, lavender brown, parvati patil and others.
environment: parvati eyes ron dubiously. edges her pouffe away.
environment: the trio emerge from the bridge and make their way toward hagrid's hut. the whomping willow looms in the distance.
environment: students gather around hagrid as harry, ron and hermione arrive. draco, crabbe, and goyle stand with the slytherins.
environment: hagrid leads them toward a small paddock just this side of the forbidden forest. in the paddock, a freestanding iron rack hangs with dead ferrets, buzzing with flies. nearby is a pumpkin patch.
environment: hagrid looks. belts, rope, spellotape: any means available have been employed to bridle the monster book of monsters, which quiver violently.
environment: there seems no consensus on this, but the students stare in wary wonder nonetheless. as hagrid coaxes the beast to the center of the paddock, ron stares uneasily.
environment: as a flicker of fear passes through harry's face, bem, a nigerian boy, stares grimly at the grainy image of black.
environment: beautiful flowers gleam in the dawn light, then, slowly begin to wither. the dew freezes, the grass grows brittle. seconds later, the dementors sweep by.
environment: thru thru
environment: as harry, ron, and hermione climb the stairs, they find a crowd gathering on the seventh floor landing.
environment: just then, there is a scream. the students dash to the landing, where all the paintings whisper fearfully. filch's rheumy eyes peer up, searching the upper shadows, then... narrow.
environment: camera drifts through the silent room, over an ocean of sleeping bags, finds harry lying awake, staring at the net of stars glimmering beyond the highest window.
environment: a gentle creak is heard and harry's eyes shift, see snape pass through the great doors, converge with dumbledore.
environment: the whomping willow idly casts off a few withering leaves.
environment: the fat lady has been replaced by a painting of a tiny knight (sir cadogan). stalking a bare stretch of grass as his pony grazes nearby, he brandishes his sword wildly as a group of gryffindors regard him warily.
environment: snap! snape pulls down a screen over the blackboard, turns.
environment: swat! he pins it to his desk. a tiny cloud of moth dust mushrooms into the air and harry lifts his palm. malfoy's parchment has reappeared.
environment: if not, i fear you'll perish, given the weather forecast. until that time, however, you'll forgive me if i don't let you off homework. should you die, i assure you... you need not hand it in. as snape turns away, malfoy sniggers with crabbe, coyle and pike. harry glances down at the drawing once more and we hear a true rumble of thunder and --
environment: ... a thin glaze of ice clouds his glasses. he wipes at them, then flinches: blood trickles down his cheek. the rain is turning to needles. needles of ice. harry glances at the handle of his broomstick. the water sluicing through the grain is freezing. vapor streams from his mouth and nose. swoosh! a dark silhouette passes on his right. he turns. swoosh! -- a twin silhouette passes on his left. harry sees neither. looks down. the layers of mist are parting below. lightning strikes. reveals: an army of silhouettes drifting onto the pitch. a vast legion of them...
environment: harry shakes his head in response to lupin's question, then -- whoosh! -- sets hedwig free of her traces. as she soars into the sky, harry and lupin watch from the lake's edge.
environment: ... to hogwarts castle, weeks later, dusted in white.
environment: harry approaches a statue of a hump-backed, one-eyed
environment: harry stops, cranes his neck. stone steps. taps the map.
environment: a box of jelly slugs as well, horace. we're nearly cleared out. horace grunts, begins moving boxes. harry looks up to the cellar door, takes out the invisibility cloak...
environment: at this elevation, the mist hangs in thick, undulating veils, the shrieking shack an eerie silhouette in the gloom. ron and hermione stand stiffly, attempting, as best they can, to conceal the fact that, basically, they're scared stiff.
environment: they take a step. one step. stop dead.
environment: rosmerta, m'dear! up ahead cornelius fudge emerges from a ministry sleigh as hagrid swings the door clear and -- with unfortunate ease -- rips it clean off the fittings. fudge joins mcgonagall and a curvy barmaid (rosmerta) outside the
environment: fudge looks around nervously, then jerks his head toward the pub. as he leads rosmerta and mcgonagall inside, we --
environment: so i says to him, 'careful, ned. don't want to go losing your head!' as the three heads cackle hysterically, bobbing up and down on their strings, harry turns... just as an unshaven wizard's arm whips down and a dart goes whistling right toward harry's eyes. harry ducks, pivots, and -- thwock! -- sees the dart pierce the cork of the disfigured dartboard behind him. harry hurries on, trailing fudge and mcgonagall up a dark stairwell as rosmerta leads them into a small back room. as the door starts to close, harry rushes forward: slam! too late. camera tilts. the knob turns, the door opens...
environment: professor mcgonagall years ago, when harry potter's parents were marked for death, they went into hiding. few knew where they were. one who did was black. and he told...
environment: mcgonagall nods, then looks pained.
environment: the dying sun streams through high windows, painting harry's face a fierce amber-red as he stands opposite lupin. ancient charts drape the walls while gleaming spheres of spun glass orbit one another silently. lupin paces before a large trunk.
environment: a cautious breeze rises. leaves scud across the gravel.
environment: a windowpane rattles, up high, the corridor thatched in shadow. slowly... camera begins to move. creeping forward. a shadow engulfs sir cadogan, dozing against his tree...
environment: harry sweeps ron's curtains aside. his bed is... empty.
environment: dark. ominous. dementors drift in the distance. restless...
environment: harry moves down a dark corridor, map in hand, wand aglow. in the paintings he passes, the subjects snore
environment: the students gaze into crystal balls, faces reflecting the mist within, so that their very skin seems to be made of smoke. conspicuously, harry, ron and hermione sit apart.
environment: as the students exit, ron, walking separately from harry, turns to neville.
environment: harry sets hermione's crystal back on its stand, starts to go, when... the smoke within the crystal suddenly darkens. leaning close, harry watches the shape that appears. it is unmistakable: sirius black. just then, a shadow crawls the glossy surface of the crystal and... ... a hand snatches harry's shoulder. he wheels, finds...
environment: the trio makes their way down the slope and past buckbeak, chewing on a ferret with idle satisfaction.
environment: as the trio exit through the back door, fudge, dumbledore and the executioner enter through the front.
environment: a veil of crows flutters onto the roof. more drop into the patch, begin to slowly circle buckbeak. harry and the others duck behind the pumpkins, watch hagrid solemnly greet the others. fudge appears at the window. picks his nose. just then, a shhh! is heard. hermione turns. the branches of the trees behind her are
environment: the trio slip silently into a stand of trees. beyond them, hagrid's hut glimmers desolately in the dying sun. high in the clock tower, a bell begins to toll.
environment: ron reaches the summit, disappears over the top. hermione and harry follow.
environment: harry and hermione make their way through the primitive passageway, ducking the roots that dangle overhead. then, abruptly, the tunnel... ends. confused, harry and hermione glance about, then -- as one -- peer up. a small opening. harry reaches up, hoists himself through.
environment: his wand-light dies. slowly, they step to the door. exchange a look. she nods, wand ready, and harry kicks the door aside.
environment: harry stares into black's sunken eyes. wanting to believe. desperate to believe. glances at ron, his agonized face. scabbers squirms violently.
environment: sirius studies harry's profile, moved by this.
environment: sirius black (cont'dpounding lupin's chest) this heart is where you truly live. this heart! here! as lupin's wand drops... pettigrew leaps.
environment: camera pulls back slowly... out of hermione's shadow, which ripples against the curtain that encircles harry's bed. a hand reaches out -- harry's hand -- and sweeps the curtain aside. ron lies opposite, his leg bandaged. hermione paces. stops.
environment: a soft smack is heard. they turn, see malfoy land on the seat of his pants in the sundial garden, rub his kisser.
environment: as buckbeak feasts on a ferret, harry and hermione duck behind a pile of pumpkins. peering into the hut, harry sees hermione and ron embrace awkwardly.
environment: he grins, turns, only to find hermione analyzing the moment with considerable fascination. caught -- regards harry defensively.
environment: nothing, i just thought i saw... never mind.
environment: harry and hermione watch themselves start up the slope. the coast clear, they slip out of the trees.
environment: 'it is the decision of the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures that the hippogriff buckbeak, hereafter called the condemned, shall be executed this day at sundown...' as harry approaches, buckbeak studies him curiously, a ferret leg dangling from his beak. harry bows. slurp! the ferret leg disappears and buckbeak returns harry's nod. as harry takes buckbeak's chain... a flint-eyed crow pecks his hand.
environment: 'the committee's appointed executioner shall dispatch the condemned by means of beheading...'
environment: 'as witnessed below.' you sign here, hagrid. very well, gentlemen. let's step outside, shall we... ding! the hogwarts bell begins to toll. harry and hermione exchange a glance. harry tugs harder. no go.
environment: subjective pov, gliding through a thicket of trees, to the forest's edge, the trees thinning, revealing...
environment: shadows emerge under a full moon: black. harry. pettigrew. lupin. hermione. ron. sleepwalking snape...
environment: camera rushes in, holds on harry and hermione's faces.
environment: shocked. terror-stricken. opposite them, across the lake...
environment: whoosh! harry and hermione plunge into frame astride buckbeak, soaring toward the castle. outside the grounds, the dementors wait restlessly. up ahead, fudge and snape enter the dark tower, torches in hand.
environment: we see buckbeak land.
environment: sirius paces within a small cell, a man condemned. spying harry and hermione, he stops. stunned to see them.
environment: hermione pushes past harry.
environment: wand flashing, hermione tries spell after spell.
environment: sirius laughs, hair blowing in the wind.
environment: black puts his hands to hermione's waist, swings her off buckbeak and onto the ground next to harry.
environment: as harry and hermione dash off, camera tracks after, rising with them as they race up the tower stairway, then passing through the mechanism and on through to the end of...
environment: ... they catch the faintest glimpse of... themselves... across the room... just as they evaporate. ron blinks. turns. frowns.
environment: the whomping willow sways in a light breeze. the black lake shimmers, clouds drifting in its glassy mirror.
environment: ron stands amid a circle of excited gryffindors.
environment: boom! the huge vertical doors burst open and harry, trailed by the others, exits with the firebolt. as he strides off, others join the assembly -- hagrid, malfoy, crabbe, and goyle among them -- curious to see what the commotion is all about.
environment: a tiny dot, growing larger and larger, races upward. it's harry shooting straight into the blue on the firebolt. a scream grows louder as he approaches. a scream of release, of utter abandon. it's harry screaming. but something else is clear as he jets past and... the screen goes black. it's a scream of joy.
