ron:  Excuse me, do you mind? Everywhere else is full.
harry:  No, not at all.
ron:  {sits across from Harry} I'm Ron, by the way. Ron Weasley.
harry:  I'm Harry. Harry Potter.
environment: {Ron goes agape.}
ron:  So-so it's true?! I mean, do you really have the...the...
harry:  The what?
ron:  {whispers} Scar...?
harry:  Oh, yeah. {lifts up hair}
ron:  Wicked.
environment: A trolley comes by the compartment, full of sweets.
ron:  {Holds up mushed sandwiches} No, thanks, I'm all set. {smacks lips.}
harry:  {pulls out coins} We'll take the lot!
ron:  Whoa!
environment:  Eating bundles of sweets.
environment: Ron's rat, Scabbers, is perched on Ron's knee, a box over its head.
harry:  Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans?
ron:  They mean every flavour! There's chocolate and peppermint, and there's also spinach, liver and tripe. George sweared he got a bogey-flavoured one once!
environment: Harry quickly takes the bean he was chewing out of his mouth.
harry:  {picks up blue and gold package} These aren't real chocolate frogs, are they?
ron:  It's only a spell. Besides, it's the cards you want. Each pack's got a famous witch or wizard. I got about 500 meself.
ron:  Oh, that's rotten luck. They've only got one good jump in them to begin with.
harry:  Hey, I got Dumbledore!
ron:  I got about 6 of him.
harry:  Hey, he's gone!
ron:  Well, you can't expect him to hang around all day, can you? {Scabbers squeaks} This is Scabbers, by the way, pitiful, isn't he?
harry:  Just a little bit.
ron:  Fred gave me a spell as to turn him yellow. Want to see?
harry:  Yeah!
ron:  {clears throat} Ahem. Sun-
environment: A girl, HERMIONE GRANGER, with bushy brown hair appears at the doorway.
hermione:  Has anyone seen a toad? A boy named Neville's lost one.
ron:  No.
hermione:  Oh, are you doing magic? Let's see then.
ron:  Aghhhemm. Sunshine, daises, butter mellow, turn this stupid fat rat yellow!
environment: {Zap. Nothing happens. Ron shrugs.}
hermione:  Are you sure that's a real spell? Well, it's not very good, is it? Of course I've only tried a few simple spells myself, and they've all worked for me. For example...{Hermione goes over and sits across from Harry. He points her hand at his glasses and Harry tenses} Oculus Reparo. {The glasses, which noseband is battered, are repaired. Harry takes them off, amazed.} That's better, isn't it? Holy Cricket, you're Harry Potter. I'm Hermione Granger...and you are...?
ron:  {full mouth} I'm...Ron Weasley.
hermione:  Pleasure. You two better change into your robes. I expect we'll be arriving soon. {Gets up and leaves, then comes back and looks at Ron.} You've got dirt, on your nose, by the way, did you know? Just there. {Points} {Ron scratches his nose, embarrassed.}
environment:  Darkness, the train blows its whistle and pulls into an outdoor station. Hagrid walks along the side aisle, with a lantern. People begin pouring out of the train.
hagrid:  Right, then! First years! This way, please! Come on, now, don't be shy! Come on now, hurry up!
environment: Harry and Ron walk up to Hagrid.
hagrid:  Hello, Harry.
harry:  Hey, Hagrid.
ron:  Whoaa!
hagrid:  Right then. This way to the boats! Come on, now, follow me.
environment: A number of boats are plugging across a vast lake, where up ahead a huge castle can be seen. People are in awe.
ron:  Wicked.
environment:  On a higher level, Professor McGonagall is waiting. She raps her fingers on a stone railing, and then goes to the top of the stairs to greet the newcomers.
environment: NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM, a scared looking boy, spots his toad sitting near McGonagall. He jumps forward.
environment: DRACO MALFOY, a slicked back evil looking boy speaks up.
harry:  I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself, thanks.
environment: Draco glares. McGonagall returns and smacks him on the shoulder with a paper. He retreats with one last glare.
ron:  Mental that one, I'm telling you.
environment: Harry nods in agreement.
environment: Sorting Hat: Ah, right then...hmm...right. Okay...Gryffindor!!
environment: (Cheering)
environment: Hermione jumps off with a smile.
environment: Draco saunters up proudly. The tattered hat nearly freaks before touching down on Dracos head.
environment: Sorting Hat: SLYTHERIN!
ron:  There isn't a witch or wizard who went bad who wasnt in Slytherin.
environment: A small, redhead goes up.
environment: Harry looks around and spots a black haired, pale teacher, SEVERUS SNAPE, looking at him. His scar hurts.
harry:  Ahh! {puts hand on forehead}
ron:  Harry, what is it?
harry:  Nothing...it's nothing, I'm fine.
environment: Sorting Hat: Let's see...I know...Hufflepuff!
environment: Ron gulps and walks up. He sits down and the hat is put on.
environment: Sorting Hat: Ah! Another Weasley. I know just where to put you...Gryffindor!!
ron:  {Sighs}
environment: (Cheering)
environment: Everything goes silent. Harry walks up and sits down.
environment: Sorting Hat: Hmm...difficult, very difficult. Plenty of courage I see, not a bad mind, either. There's talent, oh yes, and a thirst to prove yourself. But where to put you?
harry:  {whispers} Not Slytherin. Not Slytherin.
environment: Sorting Hat: Not Slytherin, eh? Are you sure? You could be great, you know. Its all here in your head. And Slytherin will help you on your way to greatness! There's no doubt about that! No? {Harry whispers: Not Slytherin...anything but Slytherin} Well, if youre sure...better be...GRYFFINDOR!!
environment: There is an immense cheering and Harry goes to the Gryffindor table.
environment: Fred and George are also there, and cheer: We got Potter! We got Potter! Harry sits down.
albus dumbledore:  Let the feast...begin.
ron:  Ahh!
environment: Numerous ghosts come pouring from the walls, sailing along.
environment: Hufflepuff ghost: Whoo-hoo-hoo!
ron:  Hey, I know you! You're Nearly Headless Nick!
hermione:  Nearly headless? How can you be nearly headless?
ron:  Ahh!
hermione:  Eugh.
environment: Percy is leading the Gryffindors to the staircases.
environment: The camera pans up and we see a vast amount of staircases, people walking on them, and some switching places.
ron:  Look at that one, Harry!
harry:  I think she fancies you.
environment: Man in painting: Welcome to Hogwarts.
environment: Approaching the Gryffindor dorms. They come up to a large painting of a large woman in a pink dress.
environment:  Mid-night. Harry is sitting by a window in his pj's, with his owl, Hedwig. He pets the owl and looks out the window, sighing with content.
ron:  Whew, amazing, can you imagine the look on old McGonagall's face if we were late?
environment: The cat jumps off the desk and turns into Professor McGonagall. The two boys are amazed.
ron:  That was bloody brilliant.
harry:  We got lost.
environment:  Snape's potions class. The students are chattering, sitting near steaming cauldrons. The door slams open and Snape comes rushing in.
snape:  There will be no foolish wand waving or silly incantations in this class. As such, I don't expect many of you to enjoy the subtle science and exact art that is potion making. However, for those select few {looks at Draco, who smiles}, who possess the predisposition, I can teach you how to bewitch the mind and ensnare the senses. I can tell you how to bottle fame, brew glory and even put a stopper {Draco looks on} in death. {Draco raises his eyebrows.} {Snape sees Harry, writing this down, in, his view, not paying attention.} Then again, maybe some of you have come to Hogwarts in possession of abilities so formidable that you feel confidant enough to not...pay...attention.
environment: Hermione nudges Harry in the ribs. He looks up.
snape:  Mr. Potter. Our...new...celebrity. Tell me, what would I get if I added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood? {Hermione's hand skyrockets. Harry shrugs.} You don't know? Well, let's try again. Where, Mr. Potter, would you look if I asked you to find me a bezoar? {Hermione's hand shoots up again.}
harry:  I don't know, Sir.
snape:  And what is the difference between Monkshood and Wolfbane?
harry:  I don't know, Sir.
ron:  Turn it into rum. Actually managed a weak tea yesterday, before...
environment: ZAPOOF! The cup explodes. There is laughter amongst the students. Suddenly, a flock of owls start coming into the hall from the rafters above.
ron:  Ah. Mail's here!
environment: The owls soar by, dropping parcels to students. Harry gets nothing. He sees the newspaper Ron has put down.
harry:  Can I borrow this? {Ron nods} Thanks.
environment: Neville is unwrapping a gift. It is a clear ball with gold around it.
hermione:  I've read about those. When the smoke turns red {the smoke turns red}, it means you've forgotten something.
harry:  Hey, Ron, somebody broke into Gringotts. Listen, Believed to be the work of dark witches or wizards unknown, Gringotts goblins, while acknowledging the breach, insist that nothing was taken. The vault in question, number 713, had in fact been emptied earlier that same day. That's odd. That's the vault Hagrid and I went to.
environment:  Outside, flying practice. The students, Gryffindor and Slytherin, are lined up in two rows with brooms by their sides. The teacher, MADAM HOOCH, comes down the line. She has short hair and hawk yellow eyes.
ron:  Up!! {His broom flies up and conks him on the nose} Ow! {Harry laughs} Shut up, Harry. {laughs}
environment: Neville immediately lifts off. He looks quite frightened.
ron:  Seeker? But first years never make their house teams! You must be the youngest Quidditch player in
harry:  A century, according to McGonagall.
environment: Fred and George approach and walk along with Ron and Harry.
ron:  Fred and George are on the team, too. Beaters.
ron:  Oh, go on, Harry, Quidditch is great. Best game there is! And you'll be great, too! {Hermione jumps up from her work and comes to join them.}
harry:  But I've never even played Quidditch. What if I make a fool of myself?
hermione:  You won't make a fool of yourself. It's in your blood.
environment:  The three approach a trophy case. Hermione points at a plaque of Quidditch players. One lists Harry's father as a Seeker.
ron:  Whoa. Harry, you never told me your father was a Seeker, too.
harry:  I-I didn't know.
environment:  The three are walking up a staircase. A railing pulls in...Hermione looks, but continues walking.
ron:  I'm telling you, it's spooky. She knows more about you than you do.
harry:  Who doesn't?
environment: The staircase shudders and begins to move. The three grab the railings.
ron:  Ahh!
hermione:  {Gasps.}
harry:  What's happening?
hermione:  The staircases change, remember? {The staircase stops, in a new place.}
harry:  {taps Ron} Let's go this way.
ron:  Before the staircase moves again. {They all open a door and walk into a spooky, dark room.}
harry:  Does anyone feel like...we shouldn't be here?
hermione:  We're not supposed to be here. This is the 3rd floor. It's forbidden.
environment: Suddenly, a flame lights on a tall stone support. At that moment, the caretaker's cat, MRS. NORRIS, comes running in and meows. The group jumps.
harry:  Let's go.
environment: {meow}
ron:  It's Filch's cat!
harry:  Run!
environment: The group runs. Flames are lit as they go. They get to the end of the corridor, to a door. Harry grabs the handle, but it's locked.
harry:  It's locked!
ron:  That's it, we're done for!
hermione:  Oh, move over! {pushes through and pulls out wand} Alohomora. {The door opens.} Get in. {They bustle in.}
ron:  Alohomora?
hermione:  Standard book of spells, Chapter 7.
environment: Filch appears at the start of the corridor with a light. Mrs. Norris looks at him.
hermione:  Filch is gone.
ron:  Probably thinks this door's locked.
hermione:  It was locked.
harry:  And for good reason. {Ron and Hermione turn to stand with Harry. There is a massively huge three headed dog sleeping in front of them. The dog, FLUFFY, begins to wake. It growls, yawns, and growls more...noticing the intruders.}
environment: Back in the Gryffindor room. They are breathless.
ron:  What do they think they're doing?? Keeping a thing like that locked up in a school.
hermione:  You don't use your eyes, do you? Didn't you see what it was standing on?
ron:  I wasn't looking at its feet! I was a bit preoccupied with its heads. Or maybe you didn't notice, there were three! {they begin to climb the stairs to the dorms.}
hermione:  It was standing on a trap door. Which means it wasn't there by accident. It's guarding something.
harry:  Guarding something?
hermione:  That's right. Now, if you two don't mind, I'm going to bed before either of you come up with another clever idea to get us killed...or worse, expelled! {turns and leaves, shutting the door to her dorms.}
ron:  She needs to sort out her priorities!
environment: Harry nods.
environment:  Outside, day time. Oliver and Harry appear, carrying a trunk. They put it down.
harry:  {throws back} I think so. What are those? {points to two squirming chained down balls.}
harry:  I like this ball.
harry:  What do I do with it?
environment: {The ball flutters out two delicate wings and jumps into the air. Harry keeps an eye on it.}
ron:  Wingardrium Leviosar. {whacks with wand numerous times.}
hermione:  Stop, stop, stop. You're going to take someone's eye out. Besides, youre saying it wrong. It's Leviosa, not Leviosar.
ron:  You do it then if you're so clever. Go on, go on.
environment: Hermione straightens up and swishes her wand.
hermione:  {crisply} Wingardium Leviosa. {The feather glows and lifts up. Ron puts his head on his books dejectedly.}
environment: Seamus begins swishing at his feather.
environment: BOOOM!!! Seamus' feather explodes. Flitwick gasps.
harry:  I think we're going to need another feather over here, Professor.
environment:  Neville, Harry, Ron and Seamus are walking through a courtyard with other students all around.
ron:  It's Leviosa, not Leviosar. Honestly, she's a nightmare. No wonder she hasn't got any friends!
environment: Hermione bustles past, sniffling.
harry:  I think she heard you.
environment:  Night, in the great hall. It is Halloween. Everyone is eating candy, and Jack O'Lanterns are keeping the place lit. There is chatter.
harry:  Where's Hermione?
environment: {Ron and Harry exchange glances. Suddenly, Professor Quirrell comes flying into the room, screaming.}
environment: The room is silent, and then everyone freaks, screaming and running.
albus dumbledore:  SILLLLLEEENNNNCEEEEE! {Everyone stops.} Everyone will please, not panic. Now, Prefects will lead their houses back to the dormitories. Teachers will follow me to the dungeons.
ron:  Not by itself. Trolls are really stupid. Probably people playing jokes. {Suddenly, Harry stops and pulls Ron aside.} What?
harry:  Hermione! She doesn't know!
environment: The two run off, down corridors. They start running down a hall when they stop, because there is a grunting noise. Harry pulls Ron into a doorway and a large, ugly TROLL thunks by into a room.
harry:  He's going into the Girl's Bathroom!
environment:  In the bathroom, Hermione emerges from a stall, wiping her eyes. She stops when she sees something. The troll is standing there. Hermione backs up, into the stall just as the troll raises its club and smashes the top part of the stalls. Hermione screams. Harry and Ron come bursting in.
harry:  Hermione, move!
environment: The troll smashes the remaining stalls.
hermione:  Help! Help! {The boys start throwing wood pieces at the troll.}
ron:  Hey, pea brain! {Ron throws wood and hits the troll on the head. Hermione escapes from the stalls to under a sink, but the troll sees her and goes to smash her. It cracks the sink and barely misses Hermione. Harry cringes.}
hermione:  Ahhh! Help!
environment: Harry gets out his wand. He runs forward and grabs the troll's club, and is lifted up.
harry:  Whooa! Whoa, whoa! {He lands on the troll's head, and is hurled forward, then back, and his wand goes up the troll's nose.}
ron:  Ew.
environment: The troll snorts, and whips around.
harry:  Whoa, whoa whoa!
environment: The troll gets Harry off its head and is holding him by one leg, upside down. It gears up its club and swipes at Harry. He pulls himself up, then down. The troll swipes again.
harry:  Do something! {swipe}
ron:  What? {swipe}
harry:  Anything! Hurry up!
environment: Ron grabs his wand. Under the sink, Hermione waves her hand.
hermione:  Swish and flick!
ron:  Wingardium Leviosa! {flick. The club is lifted out of the troll's hand and hovers above its head. The troll looks up, confused, just as the club comes crashing back down. (Ron: Cool.)  It hits the troll's head and the troll wavers, then drops Harry, who crawls away, and comes crashing down, hard.
environment: Hermione approaches carefully.
hermione:  Is it...dead?
harry:  I don't think so. Just knocked out. {He grabs his wand...which is covered in goo.} Ew. Troll bogies.
environment: Suddenly, McGonagall, Snape and Quirrell come rushing in.
environment: They all gasp.
environment: Ron and Harry: Well, what it is...
hermione:  It's my fault, Professor McGonagall. {The teachers, and Ron and Harry, gape}
hermione:  I went looking for the troll. I'd read about them and thought I could handle it. But I was wrong. If Harry and Ron hadn't come and found me...I'd probably be dead.
ron:  Take a bit of toast, mate, go on.
hermione:  Ron's right, Harry. You're gonna need your strength today.
harry:  I'm not hungry.
environment: Snape appears.
snape:  Good luck today, Potter. Then again, now that you've proven yourself against a troll, a little game of Quidditch should be easy work for you...even if it is against Slytherin. {Leaves, limping.}
harry:  That explains the blood.
hermione:  Blood?
harry:  Listen, last night, I'm guessing Snape let the troll in as a diversion so he could try and get past that 3 headed dog. But, he got himself bitten, that's why he's limping.
hermione:  But why would anyone go near that dog?
harry:  The day I was at Gringotts, Hagrid took something out of one of the vaults. He said it was Hogwarts' business, very secret.
hermione:  So you're saying...
ron:  Let's open it.
environment: {They open it.}
harry:  It's a broomstick!
ron:  Thats not just any broomstick, Harry. It's a Nimbus 2000!
harry:  But who...?
environment: {He sees Professor McGonagall up at the head table, stroking Hedwig. She smiles and Harry nods.}
environment:  Inside a Quidditch tower. The Gryffindor team is marching towards the starting gate. They reach it and stop, behind a closed double door.
harry:  A little bit.
harry:  What happened?
environment: Harry gulps and looks straight ahead as the doors open. They mount their brooms and zoom out onto the enormous pitch. There is cheering. The commentator, LEE JORDAN, is talking from a tower.
ron:  Jinxing the broom? What do we do?
hermione:  Leave it to me. {She hands Ron her binoculars and leaves.}
environment: Harry is knocked around, then falls, dangling by one arm from the broom.
ron:  Come on, Hermione!
environment: Hermione is hurrying up a tower. She appears underneath Snape and touches his cloak with her wand.
hermione:  Lacarnum Inflamarae.
environment: A spark ignites and Snape's cloak catches fire. Hermione leaves.
snape:  What? Oh! {knocks the man back, who falls into Quirrell, who then also falls. Snape bats out the fire and acts as though nothing happened. The broom stop bucking, and Harry climbs back on. The Slytherin seeker is after the Snitch. Harry takes off.}
ron:  Go!
hagrid:  Go go go!
environment: Harry rams the Slytherin Seeker, then is butted out. He returns, smashing the Seeker again as the Snitch dives. The boys follow, but they approach the ground quickly. The Slytherin Seeker backs out, and Harry pulls up his broom as he follows the Snitch, feet above the ground. Harry stands up, and steps forward, trying to grab the ball. He goes too far, and topples off the broom with a yelp, tumbling on the ground. He gets up and lurches.
environment: The crowd gasps. Hermione appears beside a tower to see.
hagrid:  Looks like he's gonna be sick!
environment: Harry lurches and the Snitch pops out of his mouth. It lands in his hands.
hagrid:  Yes!
ron:  Fluffy?
hermione:  That thing has a name?
hagrid:  Well, of course he's got a name. He's mine. I bought him off an Irish feller I met down at the pub last year. Then I lent him to Dumbledore to guard the
harry:  Yes?
hagrid:  Shouldn'ta said that. Don't ask any more questions. That's top secret, that is.
harry:  But Hagrid, whatever Fluffy's guarding, Snape's trying to steal it!
hagrid:  Codswallop. Professor Snape is a Hogwarts teacher.
hermione:  Hogwarts teacher or not, I know a curse when I see one. I've read all about them. You have to keep eye contact. And Snape wasn't blinking.
harry:  Exactly.
hagrid:  {sighs} Now, you listen to me, all three of you. You're meddlin' in things that ought not to be meddled in. It's dangerous. What that dog is guarding is strictly between Professor Dumbledore and Nicholas Flamel.
harry:  Nicholas Flamel?
ron:  Queen to E-5.
environment: A queen walks over to E-5 and clinks the knight away.
hermione:  That's totally barbaric!
ron:  That's wizard's chess. I see you've packed.
hermione:  See you haven't.
ron:  Change of plans. My parents decided to go to Romania to visit my brother, Charlie. He's studying dragons there!
hermione:  Good. You can help Harry, then. He's going to go the library for information on Nicholas Flamel.
ron:  We've looked a hundred times!
hermione:  Not in the restricted section...Happy Christmas. {exits.}
ron:  I think we've had a bad influence on her.
ron:  {calling from downstairs} Harry, wake up! Come on Harry, wake up!
environment: Harry gets up and runs to a balcony overlooking the common room, where Ron is standing next to a tree. He is wearing a sweater with an R on it.
ron:  Happy Christmas, Harry.
harry:  Happy Christmas, Ron. What are you wearing?
ron:  Oh, Mum made it for me. Looks like you've got one too!
harry:  I've got presents?
ron:  Yeah!
harry:  Oh! {Harry runs down the stairs.}
ron:  There they are. {Ron sits on a couch arm and eats jelly beans as Harry picks up a silver wrapped package. Harry takes out the card.}
harry:  "Your father left this in my possession before he died. It is time it was returned to you. Use it well."
environment: Harry opens the present. It is a cloak.
ron:  What is it?
harry:  Some kind of...cloak.
ron:  Well, let's see then. Put it on.
environment: Harry puts the cloak on, and all of him disappears except for his head.
ron:  Whoa!
harry:  My body's gone!
ron:  I know what that is! That's an invisibility cloak!
harry:  I'm invisible??
ron:  {gets up} They're really rare. I wonder who gave it to you.
harry:  {comes over} There was no name. It just said, "Use it well."
environment: Late at night. A lantern and hand appear, but nothing else. The ensemble walk through the dark library and into the Restricted Section. The lamp is put down, and the cloak removed. Harry appears.
harry:  {Reading books} Famous fire eaters...15th Century Fiends...Flamel...Nicholas Flamel...where are you?
environment: Harry picks up a book and opens it. A man's face appears.
environment: Harry slams the book shuts and puts it back.
environment: Filchs voice: Who's there?! {Harry whips around, grabbing his cloak. The lamp falls and shatters.} I know you're in there. You can't hide. {Harry puts on his cloak and creeps around Filch.} Who is it? Show yourself!
environment: Harry runs from the room, breathing heavily. He gets into the hall, where Mrs. Norris is. The cat meows and begins to follow him. Harry runs around a corner, just as Snape and Quirrell appear. Snape pushes Quirrell into the wall.
snape:  You don't want me as your enemy, Quirrell.
ron:  Why?
harry:  There's something you've got to see. Now, come on!
environment: Back in the mirror room. Harry and Ron appear as if magically and Harry runs to the mirror.
harry:  Come on. Come. Come look, it's my parents!
ron:  I only see me.
harry:  {moves over} Look in properly. Go on. Stand there. There. You see them, don't you? Thats my dad
ron:  That's me! Only, I'm head boy...and I'm holding the Quidditch cup! And bloody hell, I'm Quidditch Captain too! I look good. Harry, do you think this mirror shows the future?
harry:  How can it? Both my parents are dead. {Harry smiles sadly.}
environment: Another night. Harry is sitting in front of the mirror. Dumbledore appears behind him.
albus dumbledore:  Back again, Harry? {Harry turns around and stands up.} I see that you, like so many before you, have discovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised. I trust by now you realize what it does. Let me give you a clue. The happiest man on earth would look into the mirror and see only himself, exactly as he is.
harry:  So, then it shows us what we want? Whatever we want?
albus dumbledore:  Yes...and no. It shows us nothing more or less than the deepest, most desperate desires of our hearts. Now you, who have never known your family, you see them standing beside you. But remember this, Harry. This mirror gives us neither knowledge or truth. Men have wasted away in front of it, even gone mad. That is why tomorrow it will be moved to a new home, and I must ask you not to go looking for it again. It does not do to dwell on dreams, Harry, and forget to live. {Harry looks back at the mirror.}
environment: Daytime. It is all snowy. Harry is out in a main courtyard, bundled up, with Hedwig on his arm. He stops and she lifts off, soaring away into the sky. When she returns, it is spring time.
environment: In the library. Harry and Ron are seated, reading. Hermione comes up with a huge book. She thumps it onto the table. Harry jumps.
hermione:  I had you looking in the wrong section! How could I be so stupid? I checked this out a few weeks ago for a bit of light reading.
ron:  This is light?
hermione:  {glares} Of course! Here it is! "Nicholas Flamel is the only known maker of the Philosopher's Stone!"
environment: Ron and Harry: The what?
hermione:  Honestly, don't you two read? "The Philosopher's Stone is a legendary substance with astonishing powers. It will turn any metal into pure gold and produces the Elixir of Life, which will make the drinker immortal."
ron:  Immortal?
hermione:  It means you'll never die.
ron:  I know what it means!
harry:  Shh!
hermione:  "The only stone currently in existence belongs to Mr. Nicholas Flamel, the noted alchemist, who last year celebrated his 665th birthday!" That's what Fluffy's guarding on the 3rd floor. That's what's under the trapdoor...the Philosopher's Stone!
environment: They all look at each other.
environment: Nighttime. Hermione, Ron and Harry are running across the wet ground to Hagrids hut. They knock on the door and it opens.
harry:  Hagrid!
hagrid:  {clad in oven mitts and an apron} Oh, hello. Sorry, don't wish to be rude, but I'm in no fit state to entertain today. {Closes door.}
environment: All 3: We know about the Philosopher's Stone!
environment: {Door reopens.}
hagrid:  Oh.
environment: {They all come into Hagrid's small hut.}
ron:  I know what that is! But Hagrid, how did you get one?
hagrid:  I won it. Off a stranger I met down at a pub. Seemed quite glad to be rid off it, as a matter of fact.
environment: The egg rattles and cracks. Pieces fly off as a dragon emerges. It squeaks and slips on an egg piece.
hermione:  Is that...a dragon?
ron:  That's not just a dragon. That's a Norwegian Ridgeback! My brother Charlie works with these in Romania.
hagrid:  Isn't he beautiful? Oh. Bless him, look. He knows his mummy. Hehe. Hallo, Norbert. {The dragon squeaks as it looks at Hagrid.}
harry:  Norbert?
hagrid:  Yeah, well, he's got to have a name, doesn't he?
ron:  {laughs}
hagrid:  Don't you, Norbert? {raises fingers back and forth across Norberts chin} Dededede.
environment: Norbert backs away, hiccups and blows a fireball of fire into Hagrid's beard.
hagrid:  Ohh! Oooh, ooh, ooh, well...he'll have to be trained up a bit, of course. {Norbert hiccups. Hagrid sees someone looking in the window.} Who's that? {The person scampers away.}
harry:  Malfoy.
hagrid:  Oh, dear.
environment: The three are walking back through a corridor. An owl screeches.
harry:  Hagrid always wanted a dragon. He told me so the first time I met him.
ron:  It's crazy. And worse, Malfoy knows.
harry:  I don't understand. Is that bad?
ron:  It's bad.
environment: They stop as McGonagall, in her nightgown, appears.
environment: Malfoy appears smugly beside her.
environment: McGonagall's classroom. The three accused are standing in front of McGonagall's desk, while Malfoy is feet away, smirking.
harry:  50?!
environment: Malfoy nods, then his smile vanishes.
ron:  {weakly} Okay.
hagrid:  And Harry, you'll go with Malfoy. {Draco grimaces, and Harry nods.}
hagrid:  Fine. Just so you know, he's a bloody coward. {Fang whines.}
environment: Harry and Draco are walking through the forest, Fang leading. Draco has the lamp.
harry:  If I didn't know better, Draco, I'd say you were scared.
environment: The group approaches a flat ground with gnarled roots all over. Fang stops, then growls.
harry:  What is it, Fang?
environment: Up ahead, a cloaked figure is crouched over a dead unicorn, drinking its blood. The figure raises its head, silver blood dripping from its mouth.
ron:  But if he comes back, you don't think he'll try to kill you, do you?
harry:  I think if he'd had the chance, he might have tried to kill me tonight.
ron:  {Gulp} And to think, I've been worrying about my Potions final!
hermione:  Hang on a minute. We're forgetting one thing. Who's the one wizard Voldemort always feared?
environment: {The boys shrug.} Dumbledore! As long as Dumbledore's around, you're safe. As long as Dumbledore's around, you can't be touched. {Harry smiles slightly.}
environment: Some time later. In the outdoor courtyard. The three are walking.
hermione:  I've always heard Hogwarts' end of the year exams were frightful, but I found that rather enjoyable.
ron:  Speak for yourself. All right there, Harry?
harry:  My scar. It keeps burning.
hermione:  It's happened before.
harry:  Not like this.
ron:  Perhaps you should see the nurse.
harry:  I think it's a warning. It means dangers coming. Uhh! {He rubs scar and then sees Hagrid across the field, at his hut.} Oh. Of course! {runs for hut.}
hermione:  What is it?
harry:  Don't you think it's a bit odd that what Hagrid wants more than anything is a dragon, and a stranger shows up and just happens to have one? {They approach Hagrid, who is playing the Harry Potter theme on his flute.} I mean, how many people wander around with dragon eggs in their pockets? Why didn't I see it before? Hagrid, who gave you the dragon egg? {Hagrid stops playing.} What did he look like?
hagrid:  I don't know. I never saw his face. He kept his hood up.
harry:  The stranger, though, you and he must have talked.
hagrid:  Well, he wanted to know what sort of creatures I looked after. I told him. I said, "After Fluffy, a dragon's gonna be no problem."
harry:  And did he seem interested in Fluffy?
hagrid:  Well, of course he was interested in Fluffy! How often do you come across a three headed dog, even if you're in the trade? But I told him. I said, "The trick with any beast is to know how to calm him. Take Fluffy, for example, just play him a bit of music and he falls straight to sleep."
environment: The three gape.
hagrid:  I shouldn't have told you that. {The three take off.} Where you going?! Wait!
ron:  Trevor shh! Go, you shouldn't be here!
harry:  Now, Neville, listen. We were
hermione:  Neville, I'm really, really sorry about this...{takes out wand} Petrificus Totalus.
environment: Neville is frozen and falls backwards onto the ground. Hermione puts her wand back.
ron:  {Gulp} You're a little scary sometimes...you know that? Brilliant, but scary.
harry:  Let's go. {Walks by Neville} Sorry.
hermione:  Sorry.
ron:  It's for your own good, you know. {Exit.}
environment:  The three are under the Invisibility cloak, sneaking along the corridor.
hermione:  Ow! You stood on my foot!
ron:  Sorry. {A flame lights. Hermione draws out her wand and points it at the door.}
hermione:  Alohomora.
environment: The door opens and they go in.
ron:  Wait a minute...he's....{a blow of air, and the cape flutters off them.} Sleeping.
harry:  Snape's already been here. He's put a spell on the harp. {They approach the sleeping dog.}
ron:  Uh. It's got horrible breath!
harry:  We have to move its paw.
ron:  What?!
harry:  Come on! {grabs paw, which is blocking the door.} Okay. Push! {They strain and move it. They open the door.} I'll go first. Don't follow until I give you a sign. {Fluffy's eyes open.} If something bad happens, get yourselves out...Does it seem a bit...quiet?
hermione:  The harp. It stopped playing.
environment: Drool from one head comes down on Ron's shoulder.
ron:  Ew! Yuck! Ugh. {All three kids look up and see Fluffy standing there. Fluffy barks and growls, thrashing. It breaks the harp and dives at the three.}
harry:  Jump! Go! {They all jump through the trapdoor.}
ron:  Ahh! {gasps as he lands on some mushy black ropelike vines.} Whoa. Lucky this plant-thing is here, really.
harry:  Whoa! {The plant begins to move towards them.} Oh. Ahh! {The plant ties them up.}
hermione:  Stop moving, both of you. This is Devil's Snare. You have to relax. If you don't, it will only kill you faster.
ron:  Kill us faster?! Oh, now I can relax!
environment: Hermione manages a smile as she is sucked down below.
environment: Ron and Harry: Hermione!!
ron:  Now what are we gonna do?!
environment: Hermione's voice: Just relax!
harry:  Hermione! Where are you?!
environment: Hermione (from below): Do what I say. Trust me.
environment: Harry relaxes and is sucked through.
ron:  Ahh! Harry!
environment: Harry falls through and lands on the hard ground. Hermione goes over to him and he stands up.
ron:  Harry!
hermione:  Are you okay?
harry:  Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.
ron:  Help!
hermione:  He's not relaxing, is he?
harry:  Apparently not.
ron:  Help! Help me!
hermione:  We've got to do something!
harry:  What?
hermione:  Uh! I remember reading something in Herbology. {Ron: Help!} Um Devil's Snare, Devil's Scare, {The snare shuts Ron's mouth} it's deadly fun...but will sulk in the sun! That's it! Devil's Snare hates sunlight! {takes out wand and points upwards.} Lumus Solem! {A beam of light shoots out. The Snare shrieks and recoils. Ron falls below.}
ron:  Ahhh!
harry:  Ron, are you okay?
ron:  Yeah.
harry:  Okay.
ron:  {stands} Whew. Lucky we didn't panic!
harry:  Lucky Hermione pays attention in Herbology.
environment: There is a sound.
hermione:  What is that?
harry:  I don't know. Sounds like wings.
environment: They enter into a room filled with golden "birds."
hermione:  Curious. I've never seen birds like these.
harry:  They're not birds, they're keys. And I'll bet one of them fits that door. {They come upon a broomstick, suspended in the air.}
hermione:  What's this all about?
harry:  I don't know. Strange.
environment: {Ron creeps over to the door and takes out his wand.}
ron:  {rattles lock.} Alohomora! {Shrugs} Well, it was worth a try.
hermione:  Ugh! What're we going to do? There must be 1000 keys up there!
ron:  We're looking for a big old fashioned one. Probably rusty like the handle.
harry:  There! I see it! {points} The one with the broken wing! {He looks at the broom.}
hermione:  What's wrong, Harry?
harry:  It's too simple.
ron:  Oh, go on, Harry! If Snape can catch it on that old broomstick, you can! You're the youngest seeker in a century!
environment: Harry nods and grabs the broom. All the keys suddenly go one direction, right at Harry. He climbs on, swiping at them.
ron:  This complicates things a bit!
environment: Harry pushes off into the air. He flies off, after the key. The others follow him. Harry grabs the key.
harry:  Catch the key!
environment: He zooms by and throws the key to Hermione, who catches it and heads for the lock while Harry distracts the other keys. Hermione puts it in the lock.
ron:  Hurry up!
environment: The door opens, and Hermione and Ron rush through, followed by Harry. They shut the door just as the keys slam up against it.
environment: They enter a dark room, with broken pieces all around it.
hermione:  I don't like this. I don't like this at all.
harry:  Where are we? A graveyard.
ron:  This is no graveyard. {sighs} It's a chessboard. {Walks out onto the marble board and flames light, illuminating the board and GIANT players. Harry and Hermione come up with him.}
harry:  There's the door.
environment: They walk across the board, towards the door. Suddenly, as they reach a line of pawns, the pawns bring up their swords. The three jump and back up.
hermione:  Now what do we do?
ron:  It's obvious, isn't it? We've got to play our way across the room. All right. Harry, you take the Bishop's square. Hermione, you'll be the Queen's side castle. As for me, I'll be a knight. {They all take their places.}
hermione:  What happens now?
ron:  {aboard a horse.} Well, white moves first, and then...we play. {A pawn on the other side moves forward. Ron studies the game.}
hermione:  Ron, you don't suppose this is going to be like...real wizard's chess, do you?
ron:  You there! D-5! {A black pawn moves forward, diagonal to the white pawn. The white pawn raises its swords and smashes the black one. The three jump.} Yes, Hermione, I think this is going to be exactly like wizard's chess!
environment: The game continues. Pieces smash each other, boom! Boom!
ron:  Castle to E-4! Smash! Ron: Pawn to C-3! Smash! Boom! The Queen turns, and smashes a piece! Harry, Ron and Hermione wince. The Queen turns again. Both Ron and Harry study the game.
harry:  Wait a minute.
ron:  You understand right, Harry. Once I make my move, the Queen will take me...then you'll be free to check the King.
harry:  No, Ron! No!
hermione:  What is it?
harry:  He's going to sacrifice himself!
hermione:  No, Ron, you can't! {Ron closes his eyes.} There must be another way!
ron:  {turns to face Hermione.} Do you want to stop Snape or not? Harry, it's you that has to go on. I know it. Not me, not Hermione, you. {Harry nods.} Knight...to H-3.
environment: Ron's horse moves forward, slides and stops.
ron:  Check.
environment: The Queen turns and advances. Ron breathes faster, clutching the steel reins. The Queen stops. SMASH! Ron goes flying off the horse and lands on the floor, unconscious.
ron:  Ahhhh!
harry:  RON! {Hermione starts walking to him.} NO! Don't move! Dont forget, we're still playing. {Hermione moves back. Harry walks the diagonal in front of the King.} Checkmate. {The Kings sword falls onto the ground victory. Harry breathes out and then the two run to Ron. They bend beside him.} Take care of Ron. Then, go to the owlery. Send a message to Dumbledore. Ron's right...I have to go on.
hermione:  You'll be okay, Harry. You're a great wizard, you really are.
harry:  Not as good as you.
hermione:  {smile} Me? Books and cleverness? There are more important things. Friendship, and bravery. And Harry, just be careful.
environment: Harry nods and stands, walking away.
environment: Harry walks down a long staircase to an empty room with pillars around it. The Mirror of Erised is in the middle of the room, and a man is standing before it. It is Quirrell. Harry yelps and grabs his scar.
harry:  You? {Quirrell turns around.} No. It can't be...Snape. He was the one
harry:  B-but, that day, during the Quidditch Match, Snape tried to kill me.
ron:  All right? You?
harry:  {shrug} All right. Hermione?
hermione:  {smile} Never better.
environment: In the great hall. All students are seated, and green banners with snakes on them are around the ceiling.
environment: Dumbledore, at the head table, nods to McGonagall.
environment: She dings her glass and the chatter stops. Dumbledore rises.
albus dumbledore:  Another year gone. And now, as I understand it, the house cup needs awarding, and the points stand thus. In fourth place, Gryffindor with 312 points. {Clapping. Harry and Hermione hide their heads.} Third place, Hufflepuff, with 352 points. {Clapping.} In second place, Ravenclaw, with 426 points. {Clapping.} And in first place, with 472 points, Slytherin House.
environment: There is immense cheering.
albus dumbledore:  Yes, yes, well done Slytherin, well done Slytherin. However, recent events must be taken into account. And I have a few last minute points to award. {The Gryffindor students look up.} To Miss Hermione Granger, for the use of cool intellect when others were in great peril, 50 points. {Applause.}
ron: Hiya, Harry. 13A EXT. DURSLEY HOUSE - NIGHT 13A An OLD, TURQUOISE-COLORED FORD ANGLIA floats in midair. Ron leans out the back window. His brother FRED sits in the driver's seat. Fred's twin George is in the passenger seat.
harry: Fred? George? What're you doing here?
ron: Rescuing you, of course. Where's your trunk? 13B CLOSEUP - HARRY'S TRUNK 13B Stuffed with clothes, spellbooks. The trunk CLOSES, SNAPS SHUT. Harry drags the trunk to the windowsill, watches Ron tie off a fierce knot on the bars of Harry's window.
ron: Stand back. Harry steps back. Ron turns, nods to Fred. 13C INSERT - FRED'S FOOT 13C Fred STEPS ON the accelerator. 13D EXT. DURSLEY HOUSE - NIGHT 13D The Ford Anglia FLIES UP into the air, the rope SNAPS TIGHT, and -- CRUNCH! -- the bars are TORN from the window. Bricks and bars RAIN DOWN onto the lawn below, a mangled mess. 13E INT. UNCLE VERNON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 13E Uncle Vernon WAKES... 11.
environment: thru thru
environment: 17 INT./EXT. HARRY'S BEDROOM/THE CAR - MOMENTS LATER 17 Harry pushes the trunk over the sill into the Anglia's boot, then scrambles through the window himself, when... SQUAWK!
harry: Hedwig! Harry clambers back, grabs Hedwig's cage, swings it onto the ledge, when... BAM! The bedroom door CRASHES OPEN.
ron: Hold on, Harry!
ron: Put your foot down, Fred!
environment: . 17
environment: Like a rocket, the Anglia sails into the stars. Harry glances back, sees Aunt Petunia and Dudley join Uncle Vernon at the window. As Hedwig races up, soaring just beyond the car window, Ron turns to Harry.
ron: By the way, Harry. Happy Birthday.
environment: 18 EXT. THE BURROW - EARLY MORNING 18 As the Anglia drops through a pink sky, a haphazard mess of a HOUSE, built around a towering central chimney, appears below. By the road, a lopsided SIGN reads THE BURROW. FLUMPH! The car touches down in a WHIRLING CONE of dust, scatters a group of chickens, and fishtails to a halt. The boys spill quickly out of the car. FRED WHISPERS urgently.
ron: It's not much.
harry: I think it's... brilliant! Ron looks up. Sees Harry's mesmerized face. Slowly... GRINS. MRS. WEASLEY (O.S.) WHERE... HAVE... YOU... BEEN?! The boys nearly jump out of their skin. MRS. WEASLEY stands in the doorway. Furious. She smiles sweetly at Harry.
environment: . 19 MRS. WEASLEY
ron: They were starving him, Mum! There were bars on his window!
ron: Ginny. Been talking about you all summer. Dead annoying, really.
harry: (to Ron) Raids?
ron: Dad works at the Ministry of Magic. In the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office.
harry: The Misuse of Muggle Artefacts...?
environment: . (2) 19 RON
ron: That's when wizards bewitch something to drive Muggles mad. Shrinking door keys, that kind of thing. Dad loves Muggles. Thinks they're fascinating. Mr. Weasley hangs up his cloak, turns. Blinks.
ron: Harry, sir. Harry Potter.
environment: . (3) 19 MR. WEASLEY
harry: Diagon Alley!
ron: Diagon Alley!
environment: thru thru
environment: 24 INT. LIVING ROOM - THE BURROW - DAY (LATER) 24 Everyone has gathered in front of the large fireplace.
ron: Harry's never traveled by Floo Powder before, Mum.
harry: Floo Powder? Just then, Ron's older brother PERCY enters.
environment: . 24
environment: Percy takes a pinch from the pot, pitches it into the fireplace and BRIGHT GREEN FLAMES ROAR HIGH. To Harry's amazement, he calmly walks... straight into them.
ron: And mind you get out at the right grate!
harry: (nodding, unsure) D-Dia-gon Alley! 25 INT. SPIRALING TUNNEL 25 The SOUND is DEAFENING as Harry hurtles forward, squinting against the sting of WHIRLING SOOT and the mad, flickering lights of passing fireplaces. He falls face forward... 26 INT. BORGIN AND BURKES - STONE FIREPLACE - DAY 26 ... onto a stone hearth. Dizzy and dirty, Harry reclaims his shattered glasses. He's tumbled into a wizard's shop, but a decidedly creepy one. He starts to exit, when a WITHERED HAND in a GLASS CASE catches his eye The Hand of Glory. Nearby, an OPAL NECKLACE gleams Caution Do not touch. Cursed--Has Claimed the Lives of Nineteen Muggle Owners to Date. Oddly transfixed by it all, Harry drifts toward the exit, when...
environment: 17. 26
environment: DRACO MALFOY and his father, LUCIUS MALFOY, appear beyond the front window, approaching the shop. Harry glances about, spies a LARGE BLACK CABINET and slips inside. As he pulls the doors closed, a TINY CARD swings INTO VIEW Crushing Cabinet. Malfoy and his father enter. A stooped man (MR. BORGIN) emerges from the back room. IN THE CABINET, Harry watches, unaware that the walls around him are... SLOWLY CLOSING IN.
ron: Mum fancies him. For this, Mrs. Weasley gives Ron a jab in the shoulder. A SHORT MAN WITH A CAMERA bumps past.
environment: . 30
environment: As the crowd CLAPS, Lockhart catches the eye of a FLUNKY and, before Harry knows it, a towering stack of books is shoved into his arms. Mortified, Harry mumbles quietly.
harry: Thank you. Slipping free, Harry drifts back into the crowd and, red with embarrassment, drops the books into Ginny's cauldron.
harry: You have these. I'll buy my own --
ron: We better hurry. Harry nods, leans into his trolley and -- CRASH! -- hits the barrier and bounces back into Ron. A GUARD glowers.
harry: Sorry. Lost control of the trolley. (to Ron) Why can't we get through?
ron: I dunno. The gateway's sealed itself for some reason. As Ron presses his ear to the barrier, the CLOCK CHIMES.
harry: The train leaves at exactly eleven o'clock. We've missed it.
ron: Can't hear a thing. (a sudden thought) Harry. If we can't get through, maybe Mum and Dad can't get back.
harry: Maybe we should go wait by the car.
ron: The car! 33 EXT. PARKING LOT (KING'S CROSS) - MOMENTS LATER 33 Pushing their trolleys madly before them, Harry and Ron dash to the car, load their belongings into the Anglia's boot.
environment: . 33 HARRY
harry: This is mad. We can't drive to Hogwarts.
ron: Who says we're driving?
harry: You don't mean -- Ron, no.
ron: Look, who knows when Mum and Dad will get back. And we've got to get to school, haven't we? And even underage wizards are allowed to use magic if it's an absolute emergency. Least that's what Fred and George always say...
harry: Something tells me we're going to regret this. 33A INT. ANGLIA - DAY 33A Ron TAPS his WAND on the dash and the Anglia burbles to life.
harry: No offense, Ron, but are you sure you know how to fly this.
ron: No problem. Ron SHIFTS. With a GREAT JOLT, the car lifts from the ground.
ron: There. See. Now I reckon all we have to do is find the Hogwarts Express and follow it. Simple. Harry nods, not entirely convinced. He peers out the window. Down below, TWO PEDESTRIANS stare in disbelief.
harry: Uh, Ron. I should tell you. Most Muggles aren't accustomed to seeing a flying car.
ron: Right. Ron presses a TINY SILVER BUTTON on the dashboard and they... DISAPPEAR. Down below, the baffled pedestrians blink. 28. 34 EXT. FLYING CAR (SCOTLAND) - DAY (LATER) 34 CAMERA STARTS IN the clouds, passes through, finds Scotland's stunning green. The Anglia's ENGINE PUTTERS softly, when -- POP! - the car reappears. Ron jabs at the silver button.
ron: Uh oh. The Invisibility Booster must be faulty. CAMERA ZOOMS ALONG the ridge of a cliff. The car reappears from above, gliding away FROM CAMERA.
ron: Any sign of the train?
harry: There! Up ahead! Look... Along a STEEP BRIDGE, a single line of TRAIN TRACKS appear.
ron: Brilliant. Ron SHIFTS, GLIDES DOWN, until the Anglia is only a few feet above the tracks. The boys peer ahead, looking for the train.
ron: It must be around here someplace. Behind them, through the Anglia's rear window, the Hogwarts Express APPEARS, closing fast. Harry and Ron perk up. Smile.
harry: Do you hear that? Then, at precisely the same moment, Harry and Ron register the DIRECTION of the sound. They glance at each other, turn as one and see the train GROWING HUGE in the rear window.
harry: Aaaahhhhh! Ron SPINS THE WHEEL, puts his foot to the gas and -- at the last possible second -- whips the Anglia out of the train's path. The car WAFFLES, TOPPLES upside down briefly, before...
ron: Aaaahhhhh! Ron SPINS THE WHEEL, puts his foot to the gas and -- at the last possible second -- whips the Anglia out of the train's path. The car WAFFLES, TOPPLES upside down briefly, before...
environment: 29. 34
environment: ... TILTING onto its side. As it jets under the bridge, Harry goes SLIDING DOWN ACROSS HIS SEAT, into the door, and... OUT. Dangling upside-down from the open door, he watches the Hogwarts Express ZIP PAST and, in one window, glimpses NEVILLE and SEAMUS, mouths open in astonishment.
ron: Take my hand! Harry's grips Ron's hand, eyes the train steaming far below. It's quite a drop. Harry's fingers begin to LOSE THEIR GRIP.
ron: Hold on!
harry: I'm trying! Your hand's all sweaty! Straining, Ron yanks him inside, levels off the car. As Harry falls heavily into his seat, he BUCKLES his safety belt.
harry: I think we found the train. 35 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - FLYING CAR - NIGHT 35 As HOGWARTS CASTLE comes INTO VIEW, the Anglia ENTERS FRAME.
ron: Welcome home, Harry. Harry smiles at the sight of it, when... the Anglia GROANS.
harry: Just out of interest, Ron. Have you ever landed a car before?
ron: Well... no. but, until a few hours ago, I'd never taken off in one either. With that, the car LURCHES, the nose DROPS, and...
ron: Uh oh.
environment: 30. 35
environment: ... Harry, Ron and car go pitching through the night. As Ron rakes the GEARS, they hurtle madly toward the CASTLE WALL.
ron: IT'S NOT WORKING!
harry: UP! UP! Ron SHIFTS desperately. The Anglia LURCHES up, barely clears the castle wall. Harry and Ron exchange a look of relief, when... the car GROANS again, LURCHES... downward.
harry: MIND THAT TREE! Down below a GIANT WILLOW TREE looms. Ron SHIFTS. Nothing.
harry: TURN! TURN! Harry reaches over and, together, he and Ron SPIN THE WHEEL. It's useless. The car is heading straight for the tree. Desperately, Ron WHIPS OUT his wand and WHACKS THE DASHBOARD.
ron: STOP! STOP! STOP! The wand SNAPS IN TWO and -- CRUNCH! -- car meets tree. Harry blinks. They hang dreamily, BALANCED on the HIGHEST LIMB.
ron: My wand! Look at my wand!
harry: Be thankful it's not your neck. THWUNMP! Something HEAVY HITS Harry's door, sends a SHUDDER through the car.
ron: What's happening? Slowly, they look up and, in disbelief, watch one of the tree's branches PULL BACK, CURL INTO ITSELF, and come LASHING FORWARD like a MASSIVE FIST. THWUMP!
environment: . (2) 35 HARRY/RON
harry: Aaaaahhhhh! The Anglia tilts crazily, slides backwards and FREE-FALLS through the air and... LANDS on lower grid of branches.
ron: Aaaaahhhhh! The Anglia tilts crazily, slides backwards and FREE-FALLS through the air and... LANDS on lower grid of branches.
ron: What kind of tree is this? Before Harry can respond, the tree begins to PUMMEL THE CAR from all sides, tossing Henry and Ron about like popcorn. WINDOWS SHATTER. Heavy DENTS appear on the roof above Ron and Harry's heads. Then the car FALLS again... ... SLAMMING HEAVILY TO THE GROUND. Instantly, the tree's lower branches shoot through the front and rear windscreens and, gaining purchase, begin to SHAKE THE CAR BACK AND FORTH.
harry: Aaaaahhhhh! The tree PITCHES the car into the air. As the Anglia SLAMS DOWN again, bobbing on its SQUEALING SHOCKS, the ENGINE BURBLES BACK TO LIFE. Harry LOOKS UP, peering through the shattered windscreen. The willow's branches, as one, rear back, ready for one last punishing blow. Harry CRIES OUT.
ron: Aaaaahhhhh! The tree PITCHES the car into the air. As the Anglia SLAMS DOWN again, bobbing on its SQUEALING SHOCKS, the ENGINE BURBLES BACK TO LIFE. Harry LOOKS UP, peering through the shattered windscreen. The willow's branches, as one, rear back, ready for one last punishing blow. Harry CRIES OUT.
harry: Reverse! Reverse! Ron SHIFTS, the CAR SHOOTS BACKWARDS, and the willow PUMMELS THE TREAD-MARKED GROUND they just vacated. Safely clear, the doors fly open, the seats tip sideways, and Ron and Harry are ejected. As they hit the ground, their trunks fly from the boot, Hedwig's cage rockets out the back window, and Hedwig herself flaps into the night. Taillights blazing angrily, the BATTERED car speeds off, fishtailing into the Dark Forest.
ron: Dad's going to kill me. They hear a TREMENDOUS GROAN, turn back, and see the Whomping Willow assume its natural form, waiting for its next victim. 36 EXT. STONE STEPS/ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT 36 Filthy and bruised, Harry and Ron drag themselves up the steps. Behind them we see the mountain of student trunks and caged pets already brought up from the train.
environment: . 36 HARRY
harry: A house elf shows up in my bedroom, we can't get through the barrier to Platform Nine and Three Quarters, we almost get killed by a tree... clearly someone doesn't want me here this year.
environment: The Evening Prophet ENTERS FRAME. The HEADLINE reads FLYING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFIES MUGGLES. Below the fold a PHOTO shows Harry and Lockhart at Flourish and Blotts. CAMERA PULLS BACK, PROFESSOR SEVERUS SNAPE stands at his desk, newspaper in hand as Harry and Ron stare with dread. Filch lurks in the doorway, eying them with pleasure.
environment: 33. 37 SNAPE
snape: You were seen! By no less then seven Muggles. Do you have any idea how serious this is? You have risked the exposure of our world. Not to mention the damage you inflicted on a Whomping Willow that has been on these grounds for hundreds of years.
ron: Honestly, Professor Snape, I think it did more damage to us.
snape: Silence! I assure you, were you in Slytherin and your fate rested with me, the both of you would be on the train home tonight. As it is --
albus dumbledore: They are not. Harry and Ron turn. ALBUS DUMBLEDORE stands in the doorway. Alongside him is a distinctly annoyed PROFESSOR McGONAGALL.
harry: Professor Dumbledore. Professor McGonagall...
snape: Headmaster, these boys have flouted the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry. As such...
albus dumbledore: I'm well aware of our bylaws, Severus, having written more than a few myself. However, as Head of Gryffindor House, it is for Professor McGonagall to determine the appropriate action.
ron: (rising gloomily) We'll go and get our stuff. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL What are you talking about, Mr. Weasley?
environment: . (2) 37 RON
ron: Well, you're going to expel us, aren't you? PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Not today, Mr. Weasley. But I must impress upon both of you the seriousness of what you have done. I will be sending owls to both of your families tonight. And you will each get a detention. Snape casts a look of pure venom at Harry and Ron.
albus dumbledore: Splendid. Now, I suggest we return to the feast. There's a delicious-looking custard tart I want to sample. Rising, Harry spies an ENVELOPE on the floor. Taking it, he reads the back "KWIKSPELL. A CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IN BEGINNER'S MAGIC." It's addressed to "MR. ARGUS FILCH."
harry: Mr. Filch. You dropped this... Filch turns, eyes the envelope with embarrassment, then snatches it from Harry's hand and stuffs it into his pocket.
environment: 39 EXT. HOGWARTS CASTLE - MORNING 39 The Whomping Willow sulks in the courtyard, SLINGS strung about its injured branches. CAMERA CRANES OVER the castle walls, REVEALING the exterior of GREENHOUSE THREE, where students hurry inside for the beginning of class. 40 INT. GREENHOUSE THREE - MORNING 40 As Harry and Ron enter, SEAMUS, NEVILLE and some of the other Gryffindors hover nearby.
environment: 35. 40 HERMIONE
hermione: I should think you'd count yourself lucky that's all you got.
ron: I should think you'd mind your own business. They glare at each other. PROFESSOR SPROUT, a squat little witch, TAPS her wand on a stack of POTS.
hermione: Mandrake, or Mandragora, is used to return those who have been transfigured to their original state. It's also quite dangerous. The Mandrake's cry is fatal to anyone who hears it.
environment: . (2) 40 SEAMUS
ron: Say it. I'm doomed.
harry: You're doomed. FLASH! -- a LIGHT BLINDS Harry. He blinks, finds a small boy (COLIN CREEVEY) standing before him with a CAMERA.
harry: Hello, Colin. Nice to meet --
environment: . 41 RON
ron: Imagine that.
ron: Bloody bird's a menace -- Oh... no.
environment: A. (2) 41 NEVILLE
harry: Look at it this way. How much worse can things get? 38. 42 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S CLASSROOM - DAY 42 Gilderoy Lockhart paces before the class. Hermione and the girls hang on his every word, while Harry and Ron eye the LARGE, COVERED CAGE RATTLING mysteriously on his desk.
ron: Look at these questions. They're all about him.
harry: 'What is Gilderoy Lockhart's favorite color?'
ron: 'What is Gilderoy Lockhart's greatest achievement to date?'
harry: 'When is Gilderoy Lockhart's birthday and what would his ideal gift be?'
environment: 39.
environment: Lockhart rifles through the completed exams.
ron: What do we do now?
hermione: (raising her wand) Immobilus! The pixies FREEZE IN MIDAIR. Neville falls, PLOPS onto Lockhart's desk, shaken but unhurt. He looks at Hermione.
environment: 42B INT. SEVENTH FLOOR - CORRIDOR - LATER 42B Fresh from the pixies, Hermione, Ron, Harry and Neville walk. Hair askew. Robes shredded.
ron: Can you believe him?
hermione: I'm sure Professor Lockhart just wanted to give us some hands-on experience.
harry: Hands on? Hermione, he didn't have a clue what he was doing.
environment: . 42B HERMIONE
hermione: Rubbish. Read his books. You'll see all the amazing things he's done.
ron: He says he's done.
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 45 EXT. HOGWARTS - COURTYARD - DAY 45 The Gryffindor Quidditch team -- Harry, Fred, George, ALICIA SPINNET, KATIE BELL, and ANGELINA JOHNSON -- trail Oliver Wood through the courtyard, toward the distant Quidditch pitch. Several students are outside, studying.
environment: 42. 45 RON
ron: Uh-oh. I smell trouble.
harry: Draco?
ron: Those are Nimbus Two Thousand Ones.
hermione: At least no one on the Gryffindor team had to buy their way in. They got in on pure talent.
environment: 43. (2) 45 DRACO
ron: You'll pay for that one, Malfoy! (whips out his wand) Eat slugs! Ron points his cracked wand at Malfoy. PFFT! -- a BOLT of GREEN LIGHT scissors out the wrong end, hitting Ron himself in the stomach. As he drops to the grass, Hermione runs to him
hermione: Ron! Say something! Ron opens his mouth and... BELCHES. Hermione draws back, and watches a TRIO of SLUGS dribble out his mouth. The Slytherins CROW with LAUGHTER. Angrily, Ron rises, only to BELCH again. Fascinated, Colin Creevey runs up with his camera.
harry: Get out of the way, Colin! (to Hermione) Let's take him to Hagrid. He'll know what to do. 46 INT. HAGRID'S HUT - DAY 46 Hagrid rummages about, looking for something.
hagrid: Got jus' the thing. Set 'im down on that chair o'er there. As Ron sits, Hagrid pitches a BUCKET between his knees. Harry and Hermione glance up questioningly. Hagrid shrugs.
environment: 44. 46 HAGRID
hagrid: Better out than in. Who was he tryin' ter curse anyway?
harry: Malfoy. He called Hermione, well, I don't know exactly what it means...
hermione: (quietly) He called me a Mudblood.
hagrid: He didn'! Harry looks confused. Hermione glances at him, then away, obviously pained by this.
hermione: It means dirty blood. Mudblood's a really foul name for someone who was Muggle-born. Someone with non-magic parents. Someone... like me. It's not a term one usually hears in civilized conversation.
ron: (BELCHES forth a slug) It's disgusting!
hagrid: An' it's codswallop ter boot. Dirty blood. There's 'ardly a wizard today that's not half-blood or less. If we 'adn't married Muggles we'd've died out long ago. Besides, they haven't invented a spell our Hermione can't do... (taking her shoulder) Don' you think on it, Hermione. Don' you think on it fer a minute. /45A.
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 49 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S OFFICE - EVENING (HOURS LATER) 49 CAMERA PANS the walls of Lockhart's office, lined with FRAMED PHOTOGRAPHS of... Gilderoy Lockhart. Harry and Lockhart work by candlelight at an ornate desk. Bleary- eyed, Harry addresses envelopes, while a cheery Lockhart puts his signature to the stack of GLOSSY PHOTOS bearing his image.
environment: 49. 49 HARRY
harry: What?
harry: No... not you, that... voice.
ron: Hear what?
harry: That... voice.
hermione: Voice? What voice?
harry: (eyes darting around) I heard it first in Lockhart's office and then again, just --
harry: It's moving. I think it's going to... kill. Harry runs off. Hermione and Ron exchange a glance, follow.
environment: thru thru
environment: 58 INT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - MOMENTS LATER 58 Harry dashes madly, taking the steps three at a time. He makes the landing, rushes through the archway, and... 59 INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT 59 ... sleds to a stop, listening Nothing. Slowly, he peers down. WATER is oozing over the stone floor, surrounding his shoes. His own REFLECTION appears and, behind it, undulating like a dream... WORDS. Ron and Hermione come huffing up.
environment: . 59 RON
ron: Harry, what are you doing? He points. SHIMMERING on the wall are the words he saw reflected in water.
environment: ENEMIES OF THE HEIR... BEWARE.
hermione: 'The Chamber of Secrets has been opened...?'
ron: What's that? Hanging underneath?
harry: That's Filch's cat. Mrs. Norris. The cat hangs stiffly by her tail from a torch bracket, eyes open and blank. Harry's eyes shift to the adjacent WINDOW near the topmost pane, SPIDERS scuttle up a silvery thread, fight to get through a crack in the glass.
hermione: Look at that. Have you ever seen spiders act like that? Ron...?
ron: (backing away) I... don't... like... spiders. Suddenly, the stairwell is alive with VOICES and, seconds later, dozens of students stream forth, CHATTERING... when they stop, seeing the wall and, standing before it, Harry, Ron and Hermione. A thudding SILENCE falls. Then Draco pushes forward, eyes the wall, and grins nastily.
environment: . (2) 59 DUMBLEDORE
albus dumbledore: Argus! Dumbledore marches forward, trailed by a phalanx of teachers. Seeing the wall, Dumbledore's face darkens.
albus dumbledore: Everyone will proceed to their dormitories immediately. (to Harry, Ron, Hermione) Everyone except you three. As the corridor empties, Dumbledore steps to the wall and, with extreme gentleness, removes Mrs. Norris.
albus dumbledore: She's not dead, Argus. She's been Petrified.
albus dumbledore: But how she's been Petrified... I cannot say.
ron: A Squib's someone who's born into a wizarding family but hasn't got any powers of their own. It's why Filch is trying to learn magic from a Kwikspell course. It's also why he hates students so much. He's bitter. Hermione, who's only been half-listening -- as if trying to unravel something in her mind -- speaks then.
hermione: Harry. This voice. You said you heard it first in Lockhart's office?
harry: Yes.
hermione: And did he hear it?
harry: He said he didn't.
ron: Maybe he was lying.
hermione: I hardly think someone with Gilderoy Lockhart's credentials would lie to one of his students, Ronald. Besides, if you recall, we didn't hear anything either.
environment: . 60A HARRY
harry: You do believe me, don't you?
hermione: 'Course we do. It's just... it's a bit weird, isn't it? You hear this voice and then... Mrs. Norris turns up Petrified.
harry: I can't explain it -- it was... scary. (frowning) D'you think I should've told them -- Dumbledore and the others, I mean.
ron: Are you mad!
hermione: No, Harry. Even in the wizarding world, hearing voices isn't a good sign.
environment: 62 INT. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL'S CLASSROOM - MORNING McGonagall stands before the class. Resting on the desk in front of each student, is a different animal. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Today, we will be turning animals into water goblets. She taps the bird in front of her, three times, with the tip of her wand. It transfigures into a beautiful crystal water goblet. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Now, who would like to go first... Mr. Weasley? Ron nods. He TAPS his rat, Scabbers, who turns into a goblet with a tail. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL You must replace that wand, Mr. Weasley. Ron nods sheepishly, looks at his broken wand.
environment: . (A1) 62
environment: McGonagall sees Hermione's raised hand. Her untouched animal. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Yes, Miss Granger?
hermione: Professor, I was wondering if you could tell us about the Chamber of Secrets? A HUSH falls over the class. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL My subject is Transfiguration, Miss Granger.
hermione: Yes, Professor. But there seems to be very little written about the Chamber of Secrets. For those of us with a personal interest in the subject, that is... disturbing. Malfoy regards Hermione with chilly amusement. McGonagall considers Hermione's question for a long moment, then nods. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Very well. You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a thousand years ago by the four greatest witches and wizards of the age (CONTINUED)
environment: 54. 62
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL (CONT'D) Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. Three of the founders co-existed quite harmoniously. One did not.
ron: Three glasses who? PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Salazar Slytherin wished to be more selective about the students admitted to Hogwarts. He believed that magical learning should be kept within all-magic families. In other words, purebloods. Unable to sway the others, he decided to leave the school. (a beat) According to legend, Slytherin had built a hidden chamber in this castle, known as the Chamber of Secrets. Shortly before departing, he sealed it until that time when his own true heir returned to the school. The heir alone would be able to open the Chamber of Secrets and unleash the horror within, and by so doing, purge the school of all those who, in Slytherin's view, were unworthy to study magic.
hermione: Muggle-borns. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Yes. Naturally, the school has been searched many times for such a chamber. It has never been found.
hermione: Professor, what exactly does legend tell us lies within the Chamber? PROFESSOR McGONAGALL The Chamber is said to be home to something which the heir of Slytherin alone can control. It is said to be home... to a monster. Ron's eyes shift. Malfoy sits calmly, smiling to himself. . 63 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 63 Harry, Hermione, and Ron thread their way through the teeming corridor. Up ahead, Malfoy walks with Crabbe and Goyle.
ron: D'you think it's true? D'you think there really is a Chamber of Secrets?
hermione: Yes. Couldn't you tell McGonagall's worried. All the teachers are.
harry: But if there really is a Chamber of Secrets, and it's really been opened, that means...
hermione: The Heir of Slytherin has returned to Hogwarts. The question is, who is it?
ron: (in mock puzzlement) Let's think. Who do we know who thinks Muggle-borns are scum.
hermione: (eyeing Malfoy ahead) If you're talking about him --
ron: Of course! You heard him 'You'll be next, Mudbloods'!
hermione: I heard him. But Malfoy? The Heir of Slytherin?
harry: Maybe Ron's right, Hermione. I mean, look at his family. The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin for centuries.
ron: Crabbe and Goyle must know. Maybe we could trick them into telling...
environment: . 63 HERMIONE
hermione: No. Even they aren't that thick. But there might be another way. Mind you, it would be difficult. Not to mention we'd be breaking about fifty school rules. And it would be dangerous. Very dangerous.
ron: When do we start? 64 INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 64 In a dark nook, Harry, Ron and Hermione huddle round a book entitled Moste Potente Potions. The spotted pages are littered with DISTURBING ILLUSTRATIONS.
hermione: Here it is 'The Polyjuice Potion. Properly brewed, the Polyjuice Potion allows the drinker to transform himself temporarily into the physical form of another...'
ron: You mean, Harry and I drink some of this stuff and we turn into Crabbe and Goyle?
hermione: Yes.
ron: Wicked! Malfoy'll tell us anything!
hermione: Exactly. But it's tricky. I've never seen a more complicated potion. Lacewing flies, leeches, fluxweed. And, of course, we'll need a bit of whoever we want to change into too.
ron: Hang on now. I'm drinking nothing with Crabbe's toenails in it.
environment: 57. 64 HARRY
harry: How long will it take to make?
hermione: A month.
harry: A month? But if Malfoy is the heir of Slytherin... he could attack half the Muggle-borns in the school by then.
hermione: You didn't have to tell me that. 65 EXT. QUIDDITCH STADIUM - DAY 65 We join the Quidditch match in mid-game. The CROWD ROARS, watching as Slytherin Chasers, bent low over their new brooms, jet past the overmatched Gryffindors.
hagrid: Gallopin' Gorgons! Slytherin's flyin' like they got dragon fire in their brooms... Ron fumes, looking as though he takes Slytherin's dominance personally. Taking Hagrid's GIANT BINOCULARS, he trains them on the FACULTY BOX -- where Lucius Malfoy sits next to Snape. Harry circles high above the pitch, searching for the Golden Snitch. Suddenly, Malfoy streaks by overhead.
environment: . 65 HAGRID
hagrid: (from the stands) Blimey, Harry's got 'imself a Rogue Bludger!
ron: Rogue Bludger?
hagrid: Look fer yerself! It's bin' tampered with! Harry executes a series of zigs, zags, loops and rolls, trying to shake the Bludger, but the Bludger is relentless. Ron instinctively draws his wand, begins to point it toward Harry and the Bludger, when... Hermione's hand intercedes. She glances knowingly at his fractured wand.
hermione: You're joking, right? Besides, even with a proper wand, it's too risky. You could hit Harry. As Harry frantically dips and dives, Malfoy cruises by.
environment: A. (1A) 65
environment: Harry continues on, CLOSING on the Snitch, fingertips only inches from catching it... when... the Rogue Bludger SMASHES INTO Harry's arm. Harry cries out, steadies himself and with a brilliant, acrobatic move, SNATCHES the Snitch out of the air with his good hand. Unable to control his broom with his shattered arm, he hits the pitch with a SICKENING THUD. Wincing, Harry rolls onto his shoulders, SQUINTS UP a BLACK DOT -- growing rapidly LARGER -- is plummeting from the sky, directly toward him. It's... the rogue Bludger. Instantly, Harry spins away, grimacing in agony, as the Bludger... ... hits the ground like a SLEDGE HAMMER, violently TATTOOING the pitch again and again, only inches from Harry. Calmly, Hermione strides forth, points her wand.
hermione: Finite Incantatem! The Bludger hangs briefly in the air. Slowly ceases spinning. Drops heavily to the pitch. Harry exhales, relieved, only to recall the searing pain in his arm. As CONCERNED FACES swim above him, one particular face pushes through the others
harry: No... no... not you.
environment: 59. (3) 65 GILDEROY LOCKHART
ron: Of course! Don't you see? Lucius Malfoy must've opened it when he was at school here, and now he's told Draco how to do it.
hermione: Maybe. We'll have to wait for the Polyjuice Potion to know for sure.
ron: Enlighten me. Why are we brewing this potion in broad daylight, in the middle of a girls' lavatory? Don't you think we'll get caught?
hermione: Never. No one over comes in here.
ron: Why?
hermione: Moaning Myrtle.
ron: Who's Moaning Myrtle? There is a LOUD, PIERCING SCREECH, and the GHOST OF A YOUNG GIRL COMES RACING OUT OF THE WALL. FACE TO FACE with Ron.
hermione: She's a little sensitive. 64. 70 INT. GREAT HALL - DAY 70
harry: Nice to meet you. I'm --
ron: What's the fun in that? Lockhart and Snape face each other and bow. They turn, walk ten paces, then... SPIN... wands poised like swords.
environment: . 70 GILDEROY LOCKHART
harry: (eyeing Snape) I wouldn't bet on that.
snape: Expelliarmus! A dazzling flash of SCARLET LIGHT bursts forth and BLASTS Lockhart off his feet and into the wall behind.
hermione: Do you think he's all right?
harry: Who cares?
ron: Who cares?
snape: Perhaps it would be prudent to first teach the students to block unfriendly spells, Professor.
environment: 66. (2) 70 GILDEROY LOCKHART
snape: Weasley's wand causes devastation with the simplest spells. We'll be sending Potter to the hospital wing in a matchbox. Might I suggest someone from my own house. Malfoy, perhaps. Malfoy and Harry eye each other malevolently as they take their places onstage. Grudgingly, they bow to each other.
harry: You wish. They turn, walk ten paces, then WHIRL, wands poised.
ron: (taking Harry's arm) Come on. Move. Now. 71 INT. GRYFFINDOR COMMON ROOM - DAY (LATER) 71 Ron and Hermione usher Harry inside. Harry glances up, sees Ginny Weasley staring down at him from the top of the stairs. As their eyes meet, she turns for the girls' dormitory.
ron: You're a Parselmouth! Why didn't you tell us?
environment: 68. 71 HARRY
harry: I'm a what?
hermione: You can talk to snakes.
harry: I know. I mean, I accidentally set a python on my cousin Dudley at the zoo once. But so what? I bet loads of people here can do it.
hermione: No. They can't. It's not a very common gift, Harry. This is bad.
harry: What's bad? If I hadn't told that snake not to attack Justin --
ron: Oh, that's what you said to it.
harry: You were there! You heard me!
ron: I heard you speaking Parseltongue. Snake language.
harry: I spoke a different language? But I didn't realize -- how can I speak a language without knowing I can?
hermione: I don't know, Harry. But it sounded like you were egging the snake on or something. It was... creepy. As Gryffindors stream into the room, they eye Harry warily. Even Seamus, Neville, and Dean Thomas walk by without a word.
hermione: Harry, listen out me. There's a reason the symbol of Slytherin house is a serpent. Salazar Slytherin was a Parselmouth. He could talk to snakes too.
environment: 69. (2) 71 RON
ron: Exactly. And now the whole school's going to think you're his great-great-great grandson or something.
harry: But I'm not. I... can't be.
hermione: He lived a thousand years ago. For all we know... you could be. 72 EXT. HOGWARTS' LANDSCAPE - DAY 72 A heavy snow falls. Harry sits atop one of the towering hills facing Hogwarts. Hedwig sits beside him.
harry: Who am I, Hedwig? What am I? 73 INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 73 The trio study. Harry, burdened by dark thoughts, looks up at Ron. He smiles at Harry, then, seconds later, Hermione does the same -- something forced about it all. Unable to bear it, Harry gathers his books, gets up from the table. As Harry walks, students glance up, meet his gaze, then look away. Even MADAM PINCE eyes him from her desk. Ginny Weasley, tired and pale, scribbles furiously in a SMALL BLACK BOOK. Harry exits, walks into the hallway and pauses. From inside a room, the VOICES of a group of Hufflepuffs can be heard.
environment: . 73 ERNIE
ron: Oh, c'mon, Harry. Fred's just having a laugh.
harry: He's the only one.
ron: Okay, so half the school thinks you're nipping off to the Chamber of Secrets every night. Who cares?
harry: Maybe they're right.
hermione: (reproachfully) Harry!
harry: (frustrated) I didn't know I could speak Parseltongue. What else don't I know about myself? Maybe you can do something... even something horrible... and not know you did it.
hermione: You don't believe that, Harry, I know you don't. And if it makes you feel better, I just heard Malfoy's staying over for holiday, too.
ron: Why would that make anyone feel better?
hermione: Because, in a few days, the Polyjuice Potion's will be ready. In a few days... we may truly know who is the Heir of Slytherin. 79 INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 79 The Christmas Feast. The Hall glimmers grandly as snowflakes tumble from the ceiling. Harry and Ron sit with Hermione.
environment: A. (A1) 79 HERMIONE
hermione: Everything's set. We just need a bit of who you're changing into.
harry: Crabbe and Goyle.
hermione: And we also need to make sure that the real Crabbe and Goyle can't burst in on us while we're interrogating Malfoy.
ron: How? Hermione holds up a pair of SMALL CAKES.
hermione: I've got it all worked out. I've filled these with a simple Sleeping Draught. Simple, but powerful. Ron glances at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who presently are eating everything in front of them.
hermione: You know how greedy Crabbe and Goyle are. They won't leave the Christmas Feast until every last drop of trifle is gone. (CONTINUED)
environment: . 79
environment: HERMIONE (CONT'D) Now, once they're asleep, hide them in a broom cupboard and pull out a few of their hairs.
ron: And whose hair are you ripping out?
hermione: I've already got mine. She removes a SMALL VIAL. Inside is a TINY HAIR.
hermione: Millicent Bulstrode. She's in Slytherin. I got this off her robes. (rising) All right then... I'm going to check on the Polyjuice Potion. Hermione points to the cakes in front of her.
hermione: Remember. Just make sure Crabbe and Goyle find these. Hermione exits. Ron looks at Harry.
ron: Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go wrong? 80 INT. ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT (A BIT LATER) 80 Harry and Ron, lurking behind a SUIT OF ARMOR, watch Crabbe and Goyle exit the Great Hall. Goyle spies the cakes instantly, perched on the end of one of the banisters. Grabbing them, he reluctantly surrenders one to Crabbe and, in unison, they stuff them into their mouths. They pause. Look at each other. And keel flat onto their backs. Harry and Ron dash out, drag Crabbe and Goyle across the floor and into a cupboard. 81 INT. GIRLS' BATHROOM - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 81 Hermione, wearing a Slytherin robe, hovers over a smoking cauldron. Harry and Ron enter.
environment: A. 81 HERMIONE
hermione: Did you get it? Harry and Ron hold up their hands. In each a TUFT OF HAIR. Hermione points to a pair of SLYTHERIN ROBES.
hermione: I sneaked those out of the laundry. Harry and Ron nod, glance at the cauldron. The potion resembles a thick, dark, bubbling mud.
environment: 77. 81 HERMIONE
hermione: I'm sure I've done everything right. It looks like the book said it should. Once we've drunk it, we'll have exactly one hour before we change back into ourselves.
ron: Now what?
hermione: We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs. Harry and Ron grimace. CLOSEUP - THE POTION
environment: being poured into three glasses. CAMERA PULLS BACK. Harry and Ron have changed into the Slytherin robes. All three raise their glasses. Drop the hairs. The potion turns shades of YELLOW, BROWN, and KHAKI.
ron: Ugh. Essence of Crabbe... They nod. DRINK. Ron swallows grimly, doubles over.
ron: Think I'm gonna be sick... He runs into a stall. Harry looks sick, steps to a CRACKED MIRROR. Hermione pauses. Looks worried. Something's wrong... INSIDE THE STALL Ron bends over the toilet, watches his reflection morph into Crabbe. IN THE CRACKED MIRROR Harry watches his face contort into the thick features of Goyle. Hermione looks at her arm. Patches of fur begin to spread across her wrist and hand. Terrified, she RUNS into a stall. Ron emerges from his stall, a dead ringer for Crabbe.
environment: 78. (2) 81 RON
ron: Harry?
harry: Ron?
ron: Bloody hell.
harry: We still sound like ourselves. You need to sound more like Crabbe.
ron: (adjusts voice) Bloody hell.
harry: Lower.
ron: (lower still) Bloody hell.
harry: Less intelligent.
ron: (dumbing it down) Bloody hell.
harry: Excellent.
ron: Hey... Where's Hermione? HERMIONE (O.S.) (from the stall) I -- I don't think I'm going. You go on without me.
harry: Hermione, are you okay? HERMIONE (O.S.) Just go! You're wasting time!
environment: . 83 EXT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 83 Harry and Ron hurry down the staircase.
ron: Don't swing your arms like that. Crabbe holds them sort of stiff. Harry goes a bit more "Neanderthal."
ron: Yeah. That's better.
environment: Harry and Ron move quickly, when... FOOTSTEPS sound. Seconds later, Percy appears at the end of the corridor.
ron: What are you doing here? Percy squints, confused by Ron's voice. Harry elbows Ron, who clears his throat and speaks in a lower voice.
ron: What are you doing here?
environment: 80. 84 DRACO
environment: 86 INT. SLYTHERIN COMMON ROOM - NIGHT (LATER) 86 Harry and Ron trail Draco inside, glance around warily.
ron: (low voice) Stomachache.
environment: 81. 86 DRACO
harry: You're wrong!
harry: Harry Potter.
harry: Then you must have some idea who's behind it all?
environment: 82. (2) 86
environment: DRACO (CONT'D) So it's only a matter of time before one of them's killed this time. As for me... I hope it's Granger. As Malfoy grins, Ron's fist rises... when Harry stops him.
ron: Ho! Harry turns, sees Ron staring wide-eyed Harry's SCAR is beginning to surface beneath the skin of Goyle's thick forehead. And Crabbe's hair is... turning RED. They both JUMP to their feet, DASHING out of the room.
ron: That was close!
harry: Hermione, come out. We've got loads to tell you!
hermione: Go away!
environment: . 89
environment: As Harry and Ron exchange a puzzled glance, Moaning Myrtle spirals INTO VIEW, looking disturbingly... happy.
hermione: It was cat hair I plucked off Millicent Bulstrode's robes! Look at my face!
ron: Look at your tail. 90 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY (TWO WEEKS LATER) 90 Staggering under the weight of the LIBRARY BOOKS in their arms, Harry and Ron make their way to Hermione's bed, which is covered in... BOOKS.
hermione: Oh, good. Put those anywhere. They look. There is no anywhere. So they just... drop them.
ron: Madam Pince asked that we relay a message to you, Hermione She'd appreciate it if you'd leave a few books for the rest of the school.
hermione: I've got to keep up, haven't I? Just then, Hermione's tail twitches INTO VIEW.
ron: Is that thing ever going away?
environment: . 90 HERMIONE
hermione: Any day now, according to Madam Pomfrey. I'm just thankful I've stopped coughing up fur balls.
ron: We all are, believe me.
hermione: Now. What about the Chamber of Secrets? Any new leads?
harry: Nothing.
hermione: And has it gotten any better? I mean... is anyone speaking to you?
harry: Neville asked to borrow a tubeworm in Potions yesterday. I suppose that's something. Ron takes a GET-WELL CARD from under Hermione's pillow.
ron: 'To Miss Granger. Wishing you a speedy recovery, from your concerned teacher Gilderoy Lockhart.' You sleep with this under your pillow?
hermione: Of course not. I don't know how that got there. Now go. I still have six hundred pages to read in Transformation Through the Ages.
environment: 92 EXT. SECOND-FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 92 Harry and Ron mount the stairs, emerge.
ron: I know Hermione's mental, but can you believe she falls for that smarmy nonsense of Lockhart's?
environment: A. 92
environment: They stop. Look down. A GREAT FLOOD OF WATER streams from the Girls' Bathroom. From within, MYRTLE can be heard MOANING.
harry: Looks like Myrtle's flooded the bathroom. As Harry sploshes off toward the bathroom, Ron steps lightly.
ron: Yuck. 93 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER) 93 HUGE, WRACKING MOANS echo off the dreary tile. All the taps are running, streaming like tiny waterfalls. As Harry and Ron step to the last cubicle, Myrtle spins accusingly.
environment: 85. 93 MOANING MYRTLE
harry: Why would I throw something at you?
ron: But it can't hurt if someone throws something at you. I mean, it'd just go right through you, wouldn't it?
harry: Who threw it at you anyway?
ron: Fifty points if you can get it through her nose.
harry: This is a diary. And it's old...
environment: . 94 RON
ron: It's a diary, it's old... and was most recently in a toilet, Harry. Harry starts to open it... when Ron grabs his hand.
ron: Are you mad? That could be cursed. Dad once told me about a book the Ministry confiscated that burned the eyes out of anyone who tried to read it.
harry: I'll take my chances... (opening it) Ahhh! MY EYES! MY EYES! Ron freezes, terrified, when... Harry grins, ending the ruse. At the end of corridor, Ginny stands, looking from the diary to Harry -- utter terror on her face -- then dashes off.
harry: Ginny! I was only joking -- Brilliant. Even your sister thinks I'm the monster now.
ron: Who doesn't? Ron frowns suddenly. On the first page on the diary, EMBOSSED LETTERS spell out a name TOM MARVOLO RIDDLE.
ron: Tin Marvolo Riddle? Hang on. I know that name... (thinking, then) Of course! The night I had detention... My job was to polish the silver in the trophy room. I remember because I kept burping slugs all over Tom Riddle's trophy. I must have wiped slime off his name for an hour. Harry fans the pages. They're empty.
harry: That's odd. He never wrote in it. 95 INT. HOSPITAL WING - LATER THAT NIGHT 95
environment: DIARY. A GOLD EMBOSSED ADDRESS on the back reads WAXFLATTER'S BOOKSELLERS. 422 VAUXHALL ROAD.
environment: . 95
environment: CAMERA PULLS BACK. Harry sits with Hermione in the moonlit room. Hermione studies the diary curiously.
hermione: Tom Riddle... Hm. And Ron said he won an award fifty years ago?
harry: Special Services to the School or something --
hermione: Fifty years ago? You're sure?
harry: Yes. Why?
hermione: Don't you remember what Malfoy told you? The last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened was --
harry: Fifty years ago! That means --
ron: What? What's happened...?
harry: It was Hagrid. Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty years ago. 100B EXT. HOGWARTS - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY 100B CAMERA SOARS high over the castle, as below, students hurry to their classes. Finally, it FINDS
environment: 102 EXT./INT. HOGWARTS GROUNDS - DAY (LATER) 102 Harry, Ron and Hermione walking together across the grounds.
hermione: It can't be Hagrid. It just can't be.
ron: We don't even know this Riddle. He sounds like a dirty, rotten snitch to me.
harry: The monster had killed someone, Ron. What would any of us done?
hermione: Look. Hagrid's our friend. Why don't we just go ask him about it?
environment: . 102 RON
ron: That'd be a cheerful visit. Hullo, Hagrid. Tell us, have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle lately?
hagrid: Mad an' hairy? Wouldn' be talkin' 'bou me, now would yeh? The trio wheels, spots Hagrid grinning at them. They instantly look guilty.
harry: No! Hagrid looks at them curiously. Harry nods to the STRANGE CANISTER in his hand.
ron: No! Hagrid looks at them curiously. Harry nods to the STRANGE CANISTER in his hand.
hermione: No! Hagrid looks at them curiously. Harry nods to the STRANGE CANISTER in his hand.
harry: What's that you've got, Hagrid?
hagrid: Flesh-Eatin' Slug Repellent. Fer the Mandrakes, yeh know. Accordin' ter Professor Sprout, they still got a bit o' growin' up ter do, but once their acne clears up, we'll be able to chop 'em up, stew 'em, an' get those people in the hospital un-Petrified. 'Til then, you three best watch yerselves, all righ'? They nod, watch Hagrid lope away. Just then, Neville comes running up. He looks pale with fright.
environment: 104 INT. GRYFFINDOR TOWER DORMITORY - DAY 104 Harry's space is a disaster trunk riffled, drawers flung open, bedclothes strewn on the floor.
hermione: It had to be a Gryffindor. Nobody else knows our password. Unless, it wasn't a student...
environment: . 104 RON
ron: Well, whoever it was, they were looking for something.
harry: And they found it... Tom Riddle's diary is gone. 105 EXT. HOGWARTS GROUNDS - DAY 105 Students stream into the Quidditch Stadium. 105A INT. MARBLE STAIRCASE - DAY 105A Harry, dressed in his Quidditch robes, dashes down the staircase with Ron and Hermione. Down below, Ron spies Ginny.
ron: Hey, Ginny! Going to the match? Ginny looks up, startled, then shakes her head and exits.
ron: I tell you, she gets weirder and weirder by the day... VOICE (O.S.) Kill this time... Let me rip... Tear. Harry freezes. Ron and Hermione stop, knowing by his face...
ron: No... don't tell me... Harry turns, as if following the SOUND, absently touching his fingers to the wall as he glances around. Hermione studies him with great interest -- STUDIES HIS FINGERS -- then, abruptly, Harry turns away, shakes his head it's gone. Hermione looks up, eyes vaguely upon Harry, but her mind miles away.
hermione: Harry... I think I've just understood something! I've got to go to the library! As Hermione sprints back up the stairs, Harry YELLS.
harry: What do you understand!
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 96. 105A
environment: But she's gone. Harry turns to Ron in puzzlement.
harry: The library?
ron: That's Hermione. When in doubt, go to the library 106 EXT. REAR OF QUIDDITCH STADIUM - DAY (LATER) 106 Harry and his teammates march toward the Quidditch tower. The CHEERS of the CROWD are heard.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 97. 107
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL I warn you. This will be a bit of a shock. She opens the door. Madam Pomfrey is leaning over a bed where a girl lies. As she straightens up, we see the girl is...
ron: Hermione! PROFESSOR McGONAGALL She was found near the library. Along with this. Does it mean anything to either of you? She holds up a SMALL CIRCULAR MIRROR. Harry shakes his head. McGonagall nods gravely, leads them out. As they go, the CAMERA DRIFTS to HERMIONE'S HAND. Clinched tight in her stiff knuckles, barely visible, is... a PIECE OF PAPER. 108 INT. GRYFFINDOR COMMON ROOM - NIGHT 108 McGonagall reads from a PARCHMENT to the somber Gryffindors. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL All students will return to their house common rooms by six o'clock in the evening. You will be escorted to each lesson by a teacher. No exceptions. (rolling up the parchment) I should tell you all this. Unless the culprit behind these attacks is caught, it is likely that the school will be closed. McGonagall turns, exits. Instantly, as one, the students begin to talk amongst themselves. Neville speaks up.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 98. 108 SEAMUS
harry: We've got to talk to Hagrid, Ron. I can't believe it's him. But if he did set the monster loose last time -- even by accident -- he'll know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets. And that's a start.
ron: But you heard McGonagall. We're not allowed to leave the tower except for class --
harry: I think it's time to get my Dad's old Cloak out again. 109 INT. TOWER DORMITORY - NIGHT (LATER) 109
environment: A drawer opens, a HAND reaches in, takes the INVISIBILITY CLOAK. CAMERA PULLS BACK, REVEALS Ron and Harry. All around them, the other boys sleep. Harry pitches the cloak over himself and Ron. They're gone.
environment: &amp; &amp;
environment: 112 INT. ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT 112 Harry and Ron, beneath the cloak, sneak by an unaware Snape.
environment: 99. 113 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 113 A KNOCK. Hagrid swings open the door. Crossbow in hand.
hagrid: Who's there? Harry and Ron drop the cloak. Hagrid lowers the crossbow. 114 INT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 114 FANG, Hagrid's enormous BOARHOUND, THUMPS HIS TAIL at the sight of Harry and Ron. Harry points to the crossbow.
harry: What's that for?
hagrid: Nothin', nothin'. I've been expectin'... Doesn't matter. Sit down... I'll make tea... Hagrid nervously takes the kettle, spills the water..
harry: Are you okay? Hagrid? Did you hear about Hermione?
hagrid: Oh, yea. I heard, all righ'.
ron: (whispering to Harry) That's Dad's boss! Cornelius Fudge. The Minister of Magic! Harry elbows Ron to shut him up.
hagrid: I never... You know I never, Professor Dumbledore, sir...
albus dumbledore: I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my full confidence.
hagrid: Take me? Where? Not Azkaban prison.
hagrid: What're you doin' here! Get outta my house!
environment: 101. (2) 114 LUCIUS MALFOY
ron: Hagrid's right. With Dumbledore gone, there'll be an attack a day.
harry: Look... At the windowsill, a TRAIL OF SPIDERS escapes through a crack in the glass. Harry grabs Hagrid's LANTERN.
harry: C'mon. 103.
environment: thru thru
environment: 119 EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 119 Harry illuminates the TRAIL OF SPIDERS. They run from the window to the ground, to the dark trees in the near distance. As Harry moves to follow, Ron hesitates.
ron: What are you doing?
harry: You heard Hagrid. Follow the spiders.
ron: They're heading into the Dark Forest. Harry sighs, heads off. Terrified, Ron grabs Fang, follows.
ron: Why spiders. Why couldn't it be 'Follow the butterflies'?
environment: 121 EXT. DARK FOREST - NIGHT 121 Fang crashes through low-slung branches and sharp brambles as Harry follows. Ron gingerly picks his way, the JUMPS... as FANG HOWLS. BRANCHES SNAP. A RUMBLING NOISE sounds, then... SILENCE. Harry spies something, points O.S.
harry: There's something moving over there... something big. Just then a BLAZE of LIGHT splinters the trees, blinding them. They start to flee... when Ron stops.
ron: Harry!... Harry, it's our car! Scratched and mud-smeared, with bits of earth and grass sprouting from its headlamps and hubcaps -- the Ford Anglia looks half-animal. Ron circles it in wonder.
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 104. 121 HARRY
harry: It's been here all the time! Look at it. The Forest has turned it wild. Harry nods, then glances back up the slope.
harry: C'mon, we don't want to lose the trail. 121A EXT. SPIDERS' HOLLOW - NIGHT 121A Harry and Ron enter a hollow ribboned with shadows. Enormous trees tower over them, strewn with strands of white webbing. Ron steps on a strand, kicks it off queasily. Harry peers up ahead at the far end of the hollow, the spiders stream toward a DARK OPENING. As Harry and Ron approach the opening, a CLICKING SOUND emanates from within, ECHOING in the branches of the tall trees. GROWING LOUDER. Ron falters, glancing about nervously.
ron: I don't have a good feeling about this, Harry --
harry: Don't panic. As Harry steps to the mouth of the cavern, the AIR suddenly CRACKLES with MOVEMENT. TWIGS SNAP. A HUGE SHADOW emerges, slowly engulfs Harry. He peers up.
environment: An ANCIENT SPIDER (ARAGOG), the size of a small elephant. As it advances, Harry and Ron back slowly away. Then its BLIND EYES catch the light, and it STOPS. As if... listening.
harry: (breathing finally) Yes. We're friends of Hagrid's. And you... you're... (as it comes to him) ... Aragog, aren't you?
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 105. 121A
environment: Hearing this, Aragog's head turns slightly.
harry: He's in trouble. Up at school, there've been attacks. They think it's Hagrid. They think he's opened the Chamber of Secrets. Like before. As Harry talks, Ron's eyes dart warily about, then... RON'S POV - a pair of long legs -- SPIDER'S LEGS -- curl slowly around the trunk of the tree to his left. Terrified, Ron NUDGES Harry, but Harry ignores him.
harry: But if Hagrid never... that means... you're not the monster.
ron: Harry...
harry: Shhh! (to Aragog) But if you're not the monster, what did kill that girl fifty years ago?
harry: But have you seen it?
environment: THE CHAMBER 0F SECRETS - Rev. 1/28/02 106. (2) 121A
environment: A SCRABBLING SOUND ECHOES above Ron. He GLANCES UP a SPIDER crouches on a branch above.
harry: (annoyed) What! Ron points. Harry looks. Pales. Turns slowly back to Aragog.
harry: Well... thank you. We'll just go...
ron: Can we panic now? CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! Harry and Ron SPIN. A GANG of FIVE-FOOT SPIDERS bar the path ahead. Begin to move forward. Harry and Ron SPIN again SPIDERS. Everywhere. CLOSING IN. Desperately, Harry swings the LANTERN in his hand. The spiders falter, then CREEP FORWARD again as the ARC of the LIGHT chases itself away. Around and around. Then The LANTERN goes out. Harry pitches it aside. As one, he and Ron draw their wands.
ron: Nice knowing you.
environment: A. (3) 121A
environment: They're done for. Fang WHIMPERS. The spiders draw closer, CLICKING FEVERISHLY, when... ... a LONG, LOUD HORN BLEATS. Seconds later, a BLAZE of LIGHT ignites the hollow and the FORD ANGLIA comes THUNDERING over the rim and down the slope, KNOCKING SPIDERS OUT OF ITS PATH. As it SCREECHES to a halt, the DOORS FLING OPEN.
harry: Let's go! Harry, Ron and Fang LEAP INSIDE. Ron SHIFTS FRANTICALLY. A SPIDER appears at Harry's open window.
harry: THE WINDOWS! ROLL UP THE WINDOWS!
ron: (trying) I CAN'T! IT'S STUCK! Just then, a hairy leg reaches through Ron's window. Instantly, Ron HITS the gas, throws the car into REVERSE. Spiders scatter, but the TWO clinging to the side windows hold tight. As the CAR ZOOMS BACKWARDS out of the hollow, Harry rolls his window tight, SNAPPING OFF his SPIDER'S LEGS. 121B EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - NIGHT 121B The Anglia jets out of the hollow, lands with a THUD. Harry turns. The other spider is PULLING RON from the car. Harry points his wand, utters a spell and a BLINDING FLASH OF WHITE LIGHT BLASTS the spider into the shadows whipping past.
ron: Thanks for that.
environment: 107. 121B HARRY
harry: Don't mention it. They stop. Both hear it a DISTANT CLICKING. As the car flies over a ridge, they see them a SEA OF SPIDERS heading straight for them like a herd of raging wildebeest. Ron puts his foot to the floor, SPINS the wheel and sends the car sliding away. The spiders STAMPEDE after. 121C EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - BLACK PARK - NIGHT 121C The Anglia SLALOMS through the forest, skimming past trees as the spiders CHARGE after. Harry peers ahead, SEES an area of FALLEN TREES. There is an OPENING, one narrow escape route.
harry: That way! It's the only way out! (looking back) Hurry! They're catching up! Ron JAMS the accelerator... just as a GIANT TARANTULA drops in front of the escape route. Harry and Ron are as good as dead.
harry: Can you get us in the air?
ron: (jostling the gear stick) Flying gear's jammed! The spiders behind DRAW CLOSER. The TARANTULA waits ahead. Harry claps his hand over Ron's on the gear shift, pushing. The tarantula's pincers open, ready to kill, when... the GEAR SHIFT GIVES, the Anglia's wheels LIFT and the CAR FLIES OVER CAMERA, leaving the furious spiders below. The car barely avoids the rearing tarantula, then sails over the trees. 121D EXT. HAGRID'S HUT - NIGHT 121D As they LAND, Fang bolts free. Harry and Ron exit the CAR wearily, then watch it turn and RUMBLE BACK INTO THE FOREST.
environment: . 121D RON
ron: 'Follow the spiders'! Follow the spiders'! If he ever gets out of Azkaban, I'll kill Hagrid. I mean, what was the point of sending us in there? What have we found out?
harry: We know one thing. Hagrid never opened the Chamber of Secrets. He was innocent.
environment: thru thru
environment: 123 INT. HOSPITAL WING - DAY 123 Madam Pomfrey bars the door, frowns at Harry and Ron.
ron: We know that, Madam Pomfrey. It's just, well, you see, we thought, maybe, we could... be with her for a bit. She's our... friend, you see, and... even if she can't hear us... I mean, it can't hurt, can it? A glint of sympathy flickers in Pomfrey's eyes.
ron: You don't think Lockhart could be the heir of Slytherin, do you? (off Harry's look) Right. Forget I said it.
environment: . 123
environment: Harry studies Hermione's face.
harry: Wish you were here, Hermione. We need you. Now more than ever... Just then, the mirror in Ron's hand CATCHES the LATE AFTERNOON SUNLIGHT and casts a jagged FLAME across Hermione's hand. Harry watches the light dance over her fingers... then looks closer. Sees the paper clutched there. 124 INT. CORRIDOR - DUSK (LATER) 124 Harry and Ron duck into an alcove, take out the CRINKLED paper, which, we see now, is TORN from a library book.
harry: 'Of the many fearsome beasts that roam our land, none is more deadly than the Basilisk. Capable of living for hundreds of years, instant death awaits any who meet this giant serpent's eye. Spiders flee before it and only the crowing of the rooster can kill it.' (looking up) Ron! This is it! The monster in the Chamber of Secrets is a Basilisk. That's why I can hear it speak. It's a snake.
ron: But it kills by looking people in the eye. Why is it no one's dead? Harry frowns, contemplating this, then catches he and Ron's REFLECTION in the window opposite. He mutters HARRY
harry: Because no one did look it in the eye. Not directly at least... (in a rush) Colin saw it through his camera. Justin -- Justin must've seen the Basilisk through Nearly Headless Nick! Nick got the full blast of it, but he's a ghost -- he couldn't die again... (CONTINUED)
environment: . 124
environment: HARRY (CONT'D) ... And Hermione... had the mirror! I bet you anything she was using it to look round corners, in case it came along.
ron: And Mrs. Norris? I'm pretty sure she didn't have a camera or a mirror, Harry.
harry: The water... there was water on the floor that night. She only saw the Basilisk's reflection... (scanning the page again) The crowing of the rooster is fatal to it! That's why Hagrid's roosters were killed! Spiders flee before it! It all fits!
ron: But how's the Basilisk been getting around? A dirty great snake. Someone would have seen...
harry: Hermione answered that too. Harry points. Scribbled, in Hermione's hand, is "Pipes."
ron: (aghast) Pipes...? It's using the plumbing.
harry: Remember what Aragog said? About that girl fifty years ago? She died in a bathroom. What if she never left.
ron: Moaning Myrtle! Harry nods. Just then, McGonagall's VOICE ECHOES throughout the castle, magically magnified.
environment: . (2) 124
environment: PROFESSOR McGONAGALL (V.O.) All students are to return to their house dormitories at once. All teachers to the second floor corridor. Immediately. 125 INT. SECOND FLOOR - CORRIDOR - DUSK (MOMENTS LATER) 125 McGonagall stands before the desecrated wall, surrounded by the rest of the staff. Harry and Ron creep up the stairwell. PROFESSOR McGONAGALL As you can see, the Heir of Slytherin has left another message. Our worst fear has been realized. A student has been taken by the monster. Into the Chamber itself. (as the teachers react) I'm afraid we shall have to send the students home. I'm afraid... this is the end of Hogwarts.
snape: Just the man. A girl has been snatched by the monster, Lockhart. Your moment has come at last.
snape: Weren't you saying just last night that you've known all along where the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets is?
environment: . 125 GILDEROY LOCKHART
ron: She knew something, Harry. She'd found out something about the Chamber of Secrets. That's why she was taken. I mean, she was -- is -- a pure-blood. There can't be any other reason.
harry: (pulling him away) C'mon. Let's go see Lockhart. He may be a brainless git, but he's going to try and get into the Chamber. We can tell him what we know...
ron: Harry. D'you think there's any chance at all she's not, you know -- Harry glances over, studies Ron's tortured eyes.
harry: We'll find her, Ron. Ginny's going to be fine.
environment: /114. 126
environment: Ron nods, smiles shakily, and looks away. As he does, Harry's face changes, looks troubled. Even he doesn't believe what he's just said.
environment: 128 INT. GILDEROY LOCKHART'S OFFICE - NIGHT 128 Harry and Ron DASH inside.
harry: Professor, we've got some information for you -- Harry and Ron stop dead. Lockhart's office is stripped to the shelves. Two LARGE TRUNKS stand open.
harry: Are you going somewhere?
ron: What about my sister?
ron: You're the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher! You can't go now!
environment: 115. 128 HARRY
harry: You're running away? After all that stuff you did in your books?
harry: You wrote them!
harry: You're a fraud! You've just been taking credit for what a load of other wizards have done!
ron: Is there anything you can do?
environment: 116. (2) 128 HARRY
harry: Expelliarmus! Lockhart BLASTS backwards, toppling into one of the open trunks, his wand flying across the floor.
harry: Looks like those Dueling Lessons came in handy after all, Professor.
environment: 130 INT. GIRLS' BATHROOM - NIGHT 130 Lockhart walks ahead of Harry and Ron, their wands pointed at him. Moaning Myrtle floats above the cistern.
harry: To ask you how you died.
harry: Who was it, Myrtle?
ron: Say something, Harry. Say something in Parseltongue. Harry stares off self-consciously at the tiny snake.
harry: Open up. Ron shakes his head. Harry's spoken in his regular voice.
ron: English. Harry concentrates harder this time, staring so intensely that the snake almost looks alive. When, finally, he speaks, it is more like a HISS. Parseltongue. The circular group of sinks OPEN and a LARGE, OPEN PIPE is exposed.
harry: Oh, yes there is. You first. Harry points his wand at Lockhart, then the opening.
ron: A bloody lot of good if it's a two-hundred-foot drop onto jagged rocks.
environment: 118. (2) 130
environment: Lockhart steps grimly to the dark, gaping hole. Ron gives him a shove and he topples headfirst and out of sight. They wait. Finally... GILDEROY LOCKHART (O.S.) It's really quite filthy down here.
harry: All right. Let's go.
harry: Thanks, Myrtle. Harry turns. Jumps. Seconds later, Ron follows. 131 INT. PIPE - NIGHT 131 Harry and Ron slide wicked fast, in a hair-raising vertical plummet, catching glimpses of other, smaller pipes branching off in all directions, twisting and turning until the pipe levels off, dumps them onto the damp floor of a stone tunnel. 132 INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT 132 Lockhart stares miserably at the muck dripping from his robes. Harry takes a TORCH from the wall, poises his wand.
harry: Lumos! The torch blooms with a BRIGHT ORANGE FLAME.
harry: Remember. Any sign of movement, close your eyes straight away. Harry leads the way down the tunnel. CRUNCH! They look down a rat's skull. All around them, the ground is littered with TINY SKELETONS. Ron squints, sees something HUGE and CURVED lying ahead. When he speaks, his voice is hollow with dread.
environment: 119. 132 RON
ron: What's that? Up ahead?
harry: Maybe it's asleep. Ron draws his wand as they approach, squinting. Harry shines his light, revealing... a gigantic COIL of EMPTY SKIN.
ron: Bloody hell. Whatever shed this must be twenty feet long. Or more. THUD! They turn. Lockhart has passed out.
ron: Heart of a lion, this one. Ron kneels by him, when... Lockhart's eyes open and, quick as a fox... he snatches Ron's wand and scrambles to his feet.
harry: Ron? Are you okay?
environment: . (2) 132 RON
ron: I'm okay. This git's not, though. He got blasted by my wand. Lockhart sits up, dazed. Ron picks up a rock and CONKS him on the head. Lockhart PASSES OUT. Ron calls to Harry.
ron: What now?
harry: Wait here. I'll go on. I'll go on and... find Ginny. If I'm not back in an hour... He leaves it there.
ron: I'll try and shift some of this rock. So you can get back through. And, Harry --
harry: See you in a bit. Harry glances at the snake skin at his feet, moves off. He steps carefully through the shadows until he reaches a TOWERING STONE WALL, carved with TWIN SERPENTS.
harry: (Parseltongue) Open. The serpents part and the GIANT WALL SLIDES OPEN. Harry removes his wand and ENTERS. 133 INT. CHAMBER OF SECRETS - NIGHT 133 A vast chamber stretches ahead. Along the path are rows of STONE SERPENTS. The serpents rest in pools of black water. Ahead is an enormous STATUE of SALAZAR SLYTHERIN. Several feet in front of the statue, Ginny Weasley lies motionless. As Harry dashes and takes her into his arms, her head lolls to one side, cheeks white as marble. A pale hand clutches TOM RIDDLE'S DIARY to her chest. Harry DROPS the torch, RACES to Ginny, places his wand on the floor and kneels beside her. (BOLD ITALICS INDICATE POSSIBLE FLASHBACKS.)
harry: Ginny! Please don't be dead. Wake up! Wake up! Ginny!
environment: . 133 TOM RIDDLE
tom riddle: She won't wake. Harry spins. Tom Riddle stands nearby. He is strangely BLURRED around the edges, as though Harry was looking at him through a misted window.
harry: Tom... Tom Riddle? What d'you mean, she won't wake? She's not...
tom riddle: She's still alive. But only just.
harry: Are you a ghost?
tom riddle: A memory. Preserved in a diary for fifty years. Harry looks to the diary in Ginny's hand, then places his own hand on Ginny's arm.
harry: She's cold as ice. You've got to help me, Tom. There's a basilisk --
ron: Ginny! Ron wriggles through, rushes forward and hugs Ginny.
ron: You're alive. I can't believe it.
ron: (to Harry) Remind you of anyone?
harry: Where's Lockhart? Harry eyes Lockhart, sitting by himself, HUMMING placidly.
ron: His Memory Charm backfired. Hasn't got a clue who he is. I keep having to stop him wandering off. He's a danger to himself.
ron: No. Ron turns, raises his eyebrows at Harry. Harry looks upward. There is an opening, hundreds of feet up. Just then, Fawkes circles back, fluttering in front of Harry.
environment: . 134 RON
ron: What's with the bird?
harry: I think... I think he's telling me he can take us out of here. 134A INT. ROCKY TUNNEL - NIGHT (LATER) 134A A CURIOUS, GLIDING SHADOW RIPPLES across the cavernous wall, and then Harry, Ron, Ginny and Lockhart soar out of the darkness, linked hand in hand. Fawkes is flying them home.
environment: 135 INT. DUMBLEDORE'S OFFICE - DAY 135 Harry and Ron, covered in muck and slime -- stand in Dumbledore's office. Fawkes perches on a pedestal behind Dumbledore, who sits at his desk, examining the charred diary. He looks up, regarding Harry and Ron gravely.
albus dumbledore: Ingenious. Simply... ingenious. (looking up) Of course, Tom Riddle was probably the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen. I taught him myself fifty years ago. After he left, I would occasionally hear stories of his activities -- dark rumors -- but after awhile, even the rumors stopped. When he finally resurfaced as Lord Voldemort, most people had completely forgotten the clever Head Boy he'd once been.
environment: . 135
environment: Hearing this, Harry frowns in thought, recollecting...
albus dumbledore: Wiser wizards than you have been hoodwinked by Lord Voldemort, Miss Weasley. No, I think you've endured enough. I would suggest a bit of bed rest, however. And perhaps a large mug of hot chocolate. I always find that cheers me up. Minerva, will you show Arthur and Molly up to the hospital wing? PROFESSOR McGONAGALL Certainly, Albus. As they exit, Harry and Ron watch them go. Mrs. Weasley's VOICE carries
ron: Yes, sir.
albus dumbledore: And that there is sufficient evidence to expel you both?
harry: Yes, sir.
ron: Yes, sir.
environment: A. (1A) 135 DUMBLEDORE
albus dumbledore: Therefore, it seems only fitting... (eyes twinkling) That you both receive Special Awards for Services to the School. And -- let me see -- yes, I think two hundred points apiece, which, I believe, should be more than enough to secure Gryffindor the House Cup.
environment: . (2) 135 HARRY/RON
harry: (grinning) Thank you, sir.
ron: (grinning) Thank you, sir.
albus dumbledore: Now, Mr. Weasley, if you would, have an owl deliver these release papers to Azkaban. We need our gamekeeper back. Ron nods, takes the envelope and exits.
albus dumbledore: First, Harry, I want to thank you. You must have shown me real loyalty down in the Chamber. Nothing but that could have called Fawkes to you. Secondly, I sense you're troubled by something. Am I right?
harry: It's just, you see, sir, I couldn't help noticing certain things. Certain similarities. Between Tom Riddle and me.
environment: . (3) 135 DUMBLEDORE
albus dumbledore: You can speak Parseltongue, Harry, because Lord Voldemort can speak Parseltongue. Unless I'm much mistaken, he transformed some of his own powers to you the night he gave you that scar.
harry: Voldemort put a bit of himself in me?
albus dumbledore: Not intentionally, but... yes.
harry: So the Sorting Hat was right. I should be a Slytherin.
albus dumbledore: It's true, Harry. You do possess many of the qualities Voldemort himself prizes. Resourcefulness. Determination. A certain disregard for the rules. Yet the Sorting Hat placed you in Gryffindor.
ron: Welcome back, Hermione. McGonagall taps her goblet. Dumbledore stands.
albus dumbledore: Before we begin our feast, let's give a round of applause to Professor Sprout and Madame Pomfrey, whose Mandrake Juice has been successfully administered to all those who had been petrified. Everyone applauds.
albus dumbledore: Also, in the wake of recent events, as a school treat, all exams have been cancelled. Everyone cheers, save for Hermione.
hermione: Oh, no! At the rear of the Hall, the great doors OPEN. It's Hagrid. He enters. Stops. Looks around. The room falls SILENT. All eyes upon him. He glances around. Nervous. Embarrassed.
hagrid: Sorry I'm late. The owl deliverin' my release papers got all lost 'n confused. Some ruddy bird named Errol.
environment: . (2) 137
environment: Ron exchanges a nervous glance with Dumbledore. Hagrid looks at all of the faces staring at him. He turns to Harry.
hagrid: I jus' want to say... that if it wasn't fer' you, Harry... you an' Ron... and Hermione... Well, I jus' want to say... Thanks.
harry: There's no Hogwarts without you, Hagrid. Just then... Dumbledore gets to his feet and... slowly... brings his hands together. The others join him. Soon, everyone is on their feet and the Hall ROARING. As the students surround Hagrid, he blinks, wipes at his eyes, and... CAMERA PULLS BACK, THROUGH the window, leaving the celebration. WE CONTINUE TO CRANE BACK... BACK... TO a WIDE SHOT OF HOGWARTS... glittering gloriously in the night. FADE TO BLACK.
ron: hi, neville. as he bumps past, hermione nods to a compartment.
environment: as they slip inside, they find a man in shabby robes (professor lupin) slumped against the window, asleep. he looks ill, exhausted. the trio eye him warily. whisper.
hermione: professor r.j. lupin.
hermione: it's on his case. she points. stamped in peeling letters on a battered case is "professor r.j. lupin."
hermione: seems to be. why? what is it, harry?
environment: ron and hermione stare at harry, faces stricken in the lantern light that now glows in the compartment. crookshanks slumbers in his cage.
harry: yes.
ron: sure -- of course, no one's ever broken out of azkaban before and he's a raving, murderous lunatic... just then, the compartment rattles. lanterns flicker. the train lurches, begins to slow. hermione slides down the seat, pinning ron against the window. they exchange an awkward glance, then hermione carefully slides to the other end of the seat and glances at her watch. frowns.
environment: ... die. one by one. until all is...
ron: what's going on?
environment: a thin wisp of steam escapes ron's mouth. harry notices.
hermione: ouch! ron, that was my foot! squeak-squeak-squeak. ron, a dark silhouette against the window, wipes a patch of condensation from the window.
ron: bloody hell. what's happening? ssssst! a soft crackling fills the car and flames bloom... in the hands of r.j. lupin. in the shivering light, his face looks tired and gray, but his eyes are alert. wary.
hermione: harry? harry, are you all right? hermione's troubled face hovers above him. he nods. sits up. ron -- pale, nervous -- extends his hand. harry's glasses.
ron: well, you sort of went... rigid. we thought maybe you were having a fit or something.
ron: no. i felt... weird. like i'd never be cheerful again. but... no. harry turns to hermione. she shakes her head.
harry: but someone was screaming. a woman. hermione and ron glance nervously at each other.
albus dumbledore: welcome! welcome to another year at hogwarts! i have a few things to say, before we become befuddled by our excellent feast. i myself am particularly looking forward to the flaming kiwi cups, which, while somewhat treacherous for those of us with facial hair... mcgonagall clears her throat.
albus dumbledore: as some of you may know, professor kettleburn, our care of magical creatures teacher for many years, has decided to retire in order to spend more time with his remaining limbs. fortunately, i'm delighted to announce that his place will be filled by none other than our own rubeus hagrid!
environment: harry, ron, and hermione stare at each other -- stunned -- then applaud vigorously. hagrid turns ruby red, rises, and nearly topples the staff table, sending water goblets weaving.
albus dumbledore: the dementors will be stationed at the entrances to the grounds. while they are under strict orders not to enter the castle itself, you will on occasion see them as you go about your daily activities. under no circumstances are you to approach them. it is not in the nature of a dementor to be forgiving.
environment: harry, ron and hermione arrive at the seventh floor landing and approach the fat lady in the portrait.
environment: the gryffindors trail through the common room, the girls heading one way, boys the other.
ron: good to be home, eh, harry? harry turns -- caught -- and finds ron studying him from his own bed, scabbers cradled in his hand. harry nods and turns to the window..
environment: harry continues to stare.
environment: as bridge and castle glimmer in the distance, hagrid emerges from the forbidden forest, dragging a fistful of dead ferrets by the tail. a bird appears, circles his head playfully, chirp-chirp-chirping merrily before it... ... flutters off, pin-wheeling past flowers, into a birdbath, finally coming to rest upon... ... an ancient tree. it twitters cheerfully, singing its lovely song, when -- thwock! -- a branch punts the bird into the air. as feathers fly, the whomping willow resumes its shape.
environment: harry, ron and hermione sit on fat little pouffes in a murky, incense-laden room, along with neville, dean, seamus, lavender brown, parvati patil and others.
ron: where'd you come from?
environment: parvati eyes ron dubiously. edges her pouffe away.
ron: well. he's got a wonky sort of cross -- that's trials and suffering. but this lot here could be the sun -- that's great happiness. so... he's going to suffer but be very happy about it. professor trelawney takes the cup, peers inside, and
environment: the trio emerge from the bridge and make their way toward hagrid's hut. the whomping willow looms in the distance.
ron: ancient runes? exactly how many classes are you taking this term?
ron: hang on. ancient runes is the same time as divination. you'd have to be in two classes at once.
environment: students gather around hagrid as harry, ron and hermione arrive. draco, crabbe, and goyle stand with the slytherins.
environment: hagrid leads them toward a small paddock just this side of the forbidden forest. in the paddock, a freestanding iron rack hangs with dead ferrets, buzzing with flies. nearby is a pumpkin patch.
environment: hagrid looks. belts, rope, spellotape: any means available have been employed to bridle the monster book of monsters, which quiver violently.
hagrid: righ' then. so... so... yeh've got yer books, an' now yeh need the magical creatures. right. so... i'll... i'll go an' get 'em. hagrid turns, disappears into the trees. draco shakes his head, speaks loudly to crabbe and goyle.
harry: listen, you stupid prat -- eyes widening in fear, malfoy steps back, points.
hagrid: gee up, there! (grinning) beau'iful, isn' he?
environment: there seems no consensus on this, but the students stare in wary wonder nonetheless. as hagrid coaxes the beast to the center of the paddock, ron stares uneasily.
hagrid: a hippogriff, o' course. now, firs' thing yeh gotta know is they're proud. easily offended, hippogriffs are. don't never insult one, 'cause it migh' be the las' thing yeh do. right then -- who wants ter come an' say hello? the entire class steps back, leaving harry in front.
hagrid: tha's it. easy now... stop! this here's buckbeak, harry. yeh want ter let 'im make the firs' move. it's polite, see? jus' take step forward, give 'im a bow, and if buckbeak bows back, yeh're allowed ter touch him. ready? unsure, harry nods anyway. steps forward. and... bows. buckbeak's head cocks, eagle eyes studying harry cannily. harry waits. and waits...
ron: the little git. he's really laying it on thick, isn't he?
hermione: yes. but i hear draco's father's furious. i don't think we've heard the end of this...
ron: who? but the photograph on the prophet's front page provides a chilling answer: sirius black. hermione reads over the shoulders of others. whispers half to herself:
environment: as a flicker of fear passes through harry's face, bem, a nigerian boy, stares grimly at the grainy image of black.
environment: beautiful flowers gleam in the dawn light, then, slowly begin to wither. the dew freezes, the grass grows brittle. seconds later, the dementors sweep by.
ron: when'd she get here?
ron: riddikulus! crack! roller skates materialize on the spider's hairy feet and it begins to shuffle crazily in place. instantly, ron relaxes as the class' laughter rings out.
harry: yes, professor, but i thought if you said i could go -- professor mcgonagall but i don't say so. a parent or guardian must sign, and since i am neither, it would be inappropriate. (a flicker of pity) i'm sorry, potter. but that's my final word. ron and hermione -- watching harry expectantly from across the way -- see him turn, shake his head. their faces fall. harry raises his hand in farewell. watches them go.
environment: thru thru
ron: if there's someone untrustworthy around, it's meant to light up and spin. mind you, fred and george say it's rubbish, sold for wizard tourists, but i thought, you know, it can't hurt, given that...
harry: i'm glad you had a good time. really. and thanks for this. (eyeing the sneakoscope) rubbish or not, you're right. it can't hurt. with that, harry pops a pepper imp into his mouth.
ron: never mind.
environment: as harry, ron, and hermione climb the stairs, they find a crowd gathering on the seventh floor landing.
ron: probably stuffing her face with the apples in that still life on the second floor again.
albus dumbledore: mr. filch. round up the ghosts. tell them to search every painting in the castle for the fat lady.
environment: just then, there is a scream. the students dash to the landing, where all the paintings whisper fearfully. filch's rheumy eyes peer up, searching the upper shadows, then... narrow.
albus dumbledore: dear lady. who did this to you?
albus dumbledore: secure the castle, mr. filch. the rest of you... to the great hall.
environment: camera drifts through the silent room, over an ocean of sleeping bags, finds harry lying awake, staring at the net of stars glimmering beyond the highest window.
environment: a gentle creak is heard and harry's eyes shift, see snape pass through the great doors, converge with dumbledore.
albus dumbledore: (nodding) i didn't really expect him to linger.
snape: you may recall, prior to the start of term, i did express my concerns when you appointed professor --
albus dumbledore: no... i feel quite confident the castle is safe. and i'm more than willing to let the students return to their houses. but tomorrow. for now, let them sleep... as dumbledore's gaze finds harry, he shuts his eyes, feigns sleep.
environment: the whomping willow idly casts off a few withering leaves.
ron: yeah, we'll call you... if we ever need someone mental.
environment: snap! snape pulls down a screen over the blackboard, turns.
harry: excuse me, sir, but... where's professor lupin?
ron: werewolves?
snape: quiet!
snape: now. which of you can tell me the difference between an animagus and a werewolf? as the class stares mutely at a slide of an attacking werewolf, hermione waiting desperately for someone to respond to snape's question, the moth flutters by harry.
environment: swat! he pins it to his desk. a tiny cloud of moth dust mushrooms into the air and harry lifts his palm. malfoy's parchment has reappeared.
hermione: please, sir, an animagus is a wizard who elects to turn into an animal. a werewolf has no choice in the matter. furthermore, the werewolf actively hunts humans and responds only to the call of its own kind -- malfoy lets out a low howl.
ron: (to harry) he's got a point, you know. harry stares at the parchment. malfoy has drawn a crude caricature of harry in his quidditch robes being struck by lightning over and over.
snape: not exactly picasso, are you? i hope you demonstrate more talent on the quidditch pitch this weekend then you do as an artist.
environment: if not, i fear you'll perish, given the weather forecast. until that time, however, you'll forgive me if i don't let you off homework. should you die, i assure you... you need not hand it in. as snape turns away, malfoy sniggers with crabbe, coyle and pike. harry glances down at the drawing once more and we hear a true rumble of thunder and --
harry: faster! come on! the trace of a smile forms on harry's lips as he closes on the snitch... only yards away... reaching out... when...
environment: ... a thin glaze of ice clouds his glasses. he wipes at them, then flinches: blood trickles down his cheek. the rain is turning to needles. needles of ice. harry glances at the handle of his broomstick. the water sluicing through the grain is freezing. vapor streams from his mouth and nose. swoosh! a dark silhouette passes on his right. he turns. swoosh! -- a twin silhouette passes on his left. harry sees neither. looks down. the layers of mist are parting below. lightning strikes. reveals: an army of silhouettes drifting onto the pitch. a vast legion of them...
hermione: no!!! harry and broom tumble in opposite directions. the nimbus soars end over end, tossed by the currents, then drops... right into the whomping willow. floomph! harry, in freefall, drops through one cloud, then another. plummeting through the circling dementors. then... a tall figure rises from the crowd. raises an open hand to the heavens. eyes angry but clear. dumbledore. an explosion -- more powerful than thunder -- rocks the air. a flash -- more fierce than lightning -- shocks the sky. and then...
ron: looks a bit peaky, doesn't he?
hermione: harry! how're you feeling?
harry: brilliant.
harry: what happened?
harry: really? i meant the match. who won? silence. uncomfortable glances.
ron: there's something else you should know, harry. your nimbus -- when it blew away? -- it sort of landed in the whomping willow. and well... he tips a bag of splintered wood and twisted twigs onto the bed. as harry stares, we hear a gentle wind, then...
environment: harry shakes his head in response to lupin's question, then -- whoosh! -- sets hedwig free of her traces. as she soars into the sky, harry and lupin watch from the lake's edge.
environment: ... to hogwarts castle, weeks later, dusted in white.
harry: what's this rubbish?
ron: twice.
ron: huh? oh... all right...
environment: they take a step. one step. stop dead.
hermione: perfect. just then, voices echo and three figures appear over the rise, phantoms in the mist. malfoy. crabbe. goyle. pike.
ron: shut your mouth, malfoy.
hermione: (a harsh chuckle) hope you don't mean yourself. malfoy's eyes shift, regard hermione with disgust.
ron: that was not bloody hell, harry! funny! but he's smiling. they all are. as he and hermione pelt harry with snowballs, we --
ron: those weasels! never told me about any marauder's map!
ron: oh sure. along with his invisibility cloak, his pack of exploding snap cards, his --
environment: rosmerta, m'dear! up ahead cornelius fudge emerges from a ministry sleigh as hagrid swings the door clear and -- with unfortunate ease -- rips it clean off the fittings. fudge joins mcgonagall and a curvy barmaid (rosmerta) outside the
hermione: that's madam rosmerta. ron fancies her.
harry: shhh.
environment: fudge looks around nervously, then jerks his head toward the pub. as he leads rosmerta and mcgonagall inside, we --
environment: so i says to him, 'careful, ned. don't want to go losing your head!' as the three heads cackle hysterically, bobbing up and down on their strings, harry turns... just as an unshaven wizard's arm whips down and a dart goes whistling right toward harry's eyes. harry ducks, pivots, and -- thwock! -- sees the dart pierce the cork of the disfigured dartboard behind him. harry hurries on, trailing fudge and mcgonagall up a dark stairwell as rosmerta leads them into a small back room. as the door starts to close, harry rushes forward: slam! too late. camera tilts. the knob turns, the door opens...
environment: professor mcgonagall years ago, when harry potter's parents were marked for death, they went into hiding. few knew where they were. one who did was black. and he told...
ron: aaaahhhh! harry bolts up, sees a silhouette etched on the window -- a man clutching a knife. all the boys are up now. screaming. amid the chaos, harry grabs his wand.
harry: show yourself. crash! the water glass shatters on the floor and scabbers darts past harry's bare feet, chased by crookshanks. seizing the moment, the silhouette grasps the curtains and swings through the open window, plunging into the night. harry rushes to the window, looks down.
environment: harry sweeps ron's curtains aside. his bed is... empty.
ron: is he gone?
ron: i don't know how he got in! i was a bit busy dodging his knife! just then, a curiously content crookshanks wends his way through ron's legs.
hermione: that's a lie!
albus dumbledore: sir cadogan. is it possible that you let a mysterious man enter gryffindor tower tonight?
harry: he was right there. close enough to touch. i could've killed him.
ron: i find it astonishing that someone who prides herself on being so logical can be in such denial.
ron: harry was there! he'll tell you how it was. go on, harry, tell her.
ron: really? wasn't you had to roll under the bed last night to avoid getting cut to ribbons! a person could die being your friend, harry! ron stops, wishes he could take it back. they all wish he could. avoiding each other's eyes, they turn, continue on.
hermione: how'd it go, hagrid?
hermione: i meant the hearing.
hermione: (dreading it) and...? hagrid slings another rock into water.
ron: draco. it's him the committee should punish. it's him they should send off to the forest, not buckbeak.
hermione: (dreading the answer) where's he going, hagrid?
environment: dark. ominous. dementors drift in the distance. restless...
environment: harry moves down a dark corridor, map in hand, wand aglow. in the paintings he passes, the subjects snore
harry: mischief managed! harry stashes the map, extinguishes his wand, and turns... into the harsh glare of snape's wand.
harry: i was... i was... sleepwalking... a sneer curdles the corners of snape's lips.
harry: my dad didn't strut. nor do i. now, if you don't mind, i'd appreciate you lowering your wand. snape eyes harry coldly. containing himself. lowers his wand.
snape: turn out your pockets! finally, harry obliges. seeing the map, snape's eyes glitter.
harry: spare bit of parchment...
ron: hermione! no! she turns, surprised ron's spoken to her. he looks away.
hermione: that felt good.
environment: the trio makes their way down the slope and past buckbeak, chewing on a ferret with idle satisfaction.
hagrid: look at 'em. loves the smell o' the trees when the wind blows...
hagrid: (shaking his head) they'd know i did it. and tha' would only get dumbledore in trouble. gonna come down, yeh know. says he wants ter be with me when it... when it happens. great man, dumbledore.
hagrid: yeh will not! think i wan' yeh seein' a thing like this! no. yeh'll drink yer tea an' be off. but before yeh do -- i wan' ter see you an' ron shake hands, harry. ron and harry exchange a glance, then look to hagrid.
hagrid: good. now then. ron, i wan' ter see you give hermione a hug.
hagrid: go on! you two've been at it all year. an' i'm sick o' it. acutely uncomfortable, hermione and ron step forward and perform perhaps the most awkward hug hogwarts has ever seen.
ron: i'm not kissing fang if that's what you're thinking... hearing his name, fang -- hagrid's giant boarhound -- thumps his tail happily on the floor. hagrid turns, takes the lid from a flour tin, a tiny head, ears flecked with powder, emerges.
hagrid: yeh should keep a closer eye on yer pets, ron.
ron: right. next time i see crookshanks, i'll let him know.
hagrid: crikey. here we go agin... smash! a glass jar on the shelf shatters. as hermione scoops up a jagged star-shaped stone, a second stone bounces off the back of harry's head.
harry: hagrid... everyone turns. looks. dumbledore and fudge approach. behind them, in a fluttering shroud of crows, the executioner follows, axe at his side. hagrid begins to panic.
harry: c'mon.
environment: as the trio exit through the back door, fudge, dumbledore and the executioner enter through the front.
environment: a veil of crows flutters onto the roof. more drop into the patch, begin to slowly circle buckbeak. harry and the others duck behind the pumpkins, watch hagrid solemnly greet the others. fudge appears at the window. picks his nose. just then, a shhh! is heard. hermione turns. the branches of the trees behind her are
harry: what?
environment: the trio slip silently into a stand of trees. beyond them, hagrid's hut glimmers desolately in the dying sun. high in the clock tower, a bell begins to toll.
ron: he bit me... his eyes shift. see scabbers streaking away.
environment: ron reaches the summit, disappears over the top. hermione and harry follow.
hermione: harry. you do realize what tree this is... ron nabs scabbers, cradles him in his bloody palm.
harry: that's not good. (yelling) ron! run! ron spins. looks toward harry.
ron: aaaahhh! the dog's teeth flash and -- snap! -- close on ron's foot, dragging him towards the trunk like a rag doll. instantly, harry dashes forward, leaps out, and grabs ron's hands... but he and ron just keep skudding along the ground.
ron: harry! harry raises his chin. the dog vanishes into the gap at the base of the tree, begins to pull ron through...
harry: no, ron... one by one, ron releases his fingers from harry's forearm. sacrificing himself.
hermione: haaaaaaarrrrrr!!!!!!!!! harry squints up, sees a pile-driving fist of a branch screaming straight down for his head. he rolls away just as -- whomp! -- the branch pulverizes the ground. hermione whips through frame, still clinging on for dear life, and harry rises. flumph! -- he's promptly knocked to the ground again. hermione goes crashing through the high branches, harry spies his glasses and grabs them. rising, he fits them to his face and...
harry: ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! hermione reaches out, grabs harry's shirt and -- riding the branch in tandem -- the two boomerang back, hurtling toward the trunk of the tree, through the gap, and into the darkness...
hermione: thanks.
hermione: where do you suppose this goes?
environment: harry and hermione make their way through the primitive passageway, ducking the roots that dangle overhead. then, abruptly, the tunnel... ends. confused, harry and hermione glance about, then -- as one -- peer up. a small opening. harry reaches up, hoists himself through.
hermione: we're in the shrieking shack, aren't we? harry doesn't answer, staring at the dog prints in the dust on the floor. the ceiling creaks. they dash to the stairs.
harry: nox.
environment: his wand-light dies. slowly, they step to the door. exchange a look. she nods, wand ready, and harry kicks the door aside.
ron: he's the dog. it's a trap, harry. he's an animagus... harry looks down, follows the paw prints on the floor to a pair of filthy human feet. harry looks up slowly at the man standing in the shadows. filthy, matted hair hangs to his shoulders. his skin like a corpse.
hermione: if you want to kill harry, you'll -- you'll... have to kill us, too!
harry: then it'll be you!
harry: professor lupin! lupin ignores them, eying black intensely.
hermione: professor lupin! lupin ignores them, eying black intensely.
ron: professor lupin! lupin ignores them, eying black intensely.
harry: you betrayed my parents! you sold them to voldemort!
ron: you're mad... harry's eyes shift from ron's face to his hands, where scabbers twists violently. as a curious expression befalls harry, lupin and black, as one, raise their wands... when.
snape: (eying black) ah, vengeance is sweet. how i hoped i'd be the one to catch you.
snape: i told dumbledore you were helping your old friend into the castle. and here's the proof.
snape: give me a reason. i beg you.
snape: (clucking his tongue) listen to you two. quarreling like an old married couple. the creature and the criminal.
snape: witty as ever i see. tell me, will you be so irreverent when i turn you over to the dementors? (as black reacts) do i detect a flicker of fear? one can only imagine what it must be like to endure the dementor's kiss. it's said to be unbearable to witness. but i'll do my best. snape's eyes harden. he gestures to the door.
harry: expelliarmus! snape soars into the air, hits the wall with a thud, and slides down. ron and hermione stare in shock.
harry: you said peter before. peter who?
harry: he killed no. pettigrew's dead. him. as harry points at black, black laughs mirthlessly.
harry: the map was lying then --
ron: m-me? it's lunatic...
ron: scabbers? scabbers has been in my family for --
ron: so what?
environment: harry stares into black's sunken eyes. wanting to believe. desperate to believe. glances at ron, his agonized face. scabbers squirms violently.
ron: what are you going to do to him? sirius and lupin exchange a glance.
harry: i don't reckon my father'd want his best friends to become killers for a worthless piece of vermin like pettigrew. besides: dead, the truth dies with him. alive... you're free.
environment: sirius studies harry's profile, moved by this.
ron: it's scabbers who did it!
ron: my rat, sir. only he's not really well, he was a rat. you a rat. see, he used to be my brother percy's --
albus dumbledore: i do, miss granger. but i'm sorry to say the word of three thirteen- year-old wizards will convince few others. a child's voice, however honest and true, is meaningless to those who have forgotten how to listen. as dumbledore turns to the window, a shooting star plummets silently through the sky.
albus dumbledore: by the way, when in doubt, i find retracing my steps to be a wise place to begin... good luck. he smiles, exits. harry glances curiously at the chocolate.
hermione: sorry, ron. but seeing as you can't walk... as ron and harry exchange a curious glance, the bell continues to chime -- ding! ding! -- and...
hermione: seven-thirty. where were we at seven-thirty?
hermione: come on! we can't be seen! hermione grabs harry's arm, slams through the door.
harry: hermione! will you please tell me what it is we're doing?! she holds up a hand, silencing him. annoyed, harry follows her gaze and blinks in disbelief. across the grounds...
harry: but that... that's... us. this is not... normal.
hermione: this is a time-turner, harry. mcgonagall gave it to me first term. this is how i've been getting to my lessons all year.
hermione: yes. dumbledore wanted us to return to this moment. clearly something happened he wants us to change.
ron: quiet! (as they oblige) thank you. let the man through. mystified, harry steps forward, the boys peeling away, clearing his view of the broomstick in ron's hands. the
harry: whose is that?
harry: who? but... how?
harry: that's a hippogriff feather -- as harry stops short, hermione raises her eyebrow. as they share a secret glance, we...
environment: boom! the huge vertical doors burst open and harry, trailed by the others, exits with the firebolt. as he strides off, others join the assembly -- hagrid, malfoy, crabbe, and goyle among them -- curious to see what the commotion is all about.
harry: oh, come on now. it's just a broom.
harry: the fastest broom in the world. as everyone turns -- whoosh! -- harry jets off and we --
environment: a tiny dot, growing larger and larger, races upward. it's harry shooting straight into the blue on the firebolt. a scream grows louder as he approaches. a scream of release, of utter abandon. it's harry screaming. but something else is clear as he jets past and... the screen goes black. it's a scream of joy.
